Trump admin directs federal agencies to delete employee COVID vaccination records ‘Must be expunged’
Politics Trump admin directs federal agencies to delete employee COVID vaccination records: ‘Must be expunged’ By Victor Nava Published Aug. 9, 2025, 1:30 a.m. ET The Trump administration on Friday ordered all federal agencies to eliminate any records related to workers’ COVID-19 vaccination status, noncompliance with pandemic-era mandates or requests for vaccine exemptions. The rollback of vaccine record retention requirements was announced by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in a memo to all federal department and agency heads. OPM explained that the move is in response to recent litigation and is part of the Trump administrationʼs broader effort to reverse “harmful pandemic-era policies” imposed by former President Joe Biden. 5 President Donald Trump attends a signing ceremony in the State Dining Room of the White House on Aug. 8, 2025. NATHAN HOWARD/POOL/EPA/Shutterstock “Things got out of hand during the pandemic, and federal workers were fired, punished, or sidelined for simply making a personal medical decision,” OPM Director Scott Kupor said in a statement. “That should never have happened.” “Thanks to President Trumpʼs leadership, weʼre making sure the excesses of that era do not have lingering effects on federal workers,” Kupor added. Explore More Georgia cop killed near Emory University, CDC HQ hailed as dedicated officer who leaves behind pregnant wife, 2 kids Officer killed in shooting outside CDC HQ in Atlanta by gunman who reportedly blamed COVID vaccine for illness RFK Jr.’s anti-vaccine fixation is a menace to public health Under the directive, effective immediately, agencies are barred from using an employee’s vaccine history in any employment-related decision, including hiring, promotion, discipline, or termination. Within 90 days, vaccine-related information “must be expunged” from both physical and electronic personnel files of all federal workers. 5 Scott Kupor, Director of the Office of Personnel Management, listens during a hearing of the Senate committee on April 3, 2025. AP 5 Dr. Anthony Fauci receives his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland on Dec. 22, 2020. AP Employees can opt out within those 90 days if they wish to keep their COVID vaccine history on file. Agencies must certify compliance with Kupor’s order by Sept. 8. In September 2021, Biden signed an executive order forcing all federal workers to take the COVID-19 vaccine as a condition of employment. 5 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi holds up her COVID-19 vaccination card in the Capitol on Dec. 18, 2020. UPI 5 Vice President-elect Kamala Harris receives a Moderna COVID-19 vaccine at the United Medical Center in Washington, DC, on Dec. 29, 2020. Getty Images A federal judge issued a nationwide injunction blocking the Biden vaccine mandate in January 2022 – by which point the administration said nearly 98% of covered employees had been vaccinated. In April 2022, a three-judge panel on the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed the injunction, but a year later, the full fifth circuit struck down the mandate. Biden rescinded the mandate in May of 2023 — several months after he declared that the pandemic “is over” in a September 2022 “60 Minutes” interview. Filed under Coronavirus COVID vaccine donald trump joe biden Pandemics vaccines 8/9/25 Read Next Rep. Jasmine Crockett laughs off troubling accusations she... Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 46,720 times. 46,720 This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women This story has been shared 43,587 times. 43,587 Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain This story has been shared 34,858 times. 34,858 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 34,559 times. 34,559 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 Now on Page Six Howard Stern reportedly ‘can’t stand’ fellow SiriusXM host Alex Cooper of ‘Call Her Daddy,’ avoids her in New York Justin Bieber has his hands full in nothing but tighty-whities and combat boots Brooklyn Beckham gives rare insight into Nicola Peltz marriage after ‘beautiful’ wedding vow renewal See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report President Donald Trump attends a signing ceremony in the State Dining Room of the White House on Aug. 8, 2025. NATHAN HOWARD/POOL/EPA/Shutterstock Scott Kupor, Director of the Office of Personnel Management, listens during a hearing of the Senate committee on April 3, 2025. AP Dr. Anthony Fauci receives his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland on Dec. 22, 2020. AP House Speaker Nancy Pelosi holds up her COVID-19 vaccination card in the Capitol on Dec. 18, 2020. UPI Vice President-elect Kamala Harris receives a Moderna COVID-19 vaccine at the United Medical Center in Washington, DC, on Dec. 29, 2020. Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 5 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement