Pennsylvania boy, 12, charged for scalding 9-year-old sleeping brother with boiling water in disturbing social media prank
US News Pennsylvania boy, 12, charged for scalding 9-year-old sleeping brother with boiling water in disturbing social media prank By Anna Young Published Aug. 9, 2025, 12:35 a.m. ET A 9-year-old boy in Pennsylvania was severely burned after his older brother poured scalding hot water on him as part of a disturbing social media challenge, police said. The warped 12-year-old was arrested and charged with aggravated assault after boiling water in a microwave and drenching his sleeping sibling with it as part of the “Hot Water Challenge” on July 29, according to the Lancaster Township Police Department. The dangerous prank, which involves people drinking or dumping seething water on themselves or someone else, left the young boy with severe burns to his neck and chest. The 9-year-old was drenched with blistering water as part of the “Hot Water Challenge.” unknown He was rushed to the Lehigh Burn Center in Allentown for treatment, police said. The troubled culprit was also slapped with recklessly endangering another person. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' The investigation is ongoing, with authorities pressing parents to monitor their children’s online activity. The sick stunt has made headlines in recent years, with teens and children suffering gruesome, permanent scars from the blazing hot water. In July 2018, a 15-year-old boy from Indianapolis suffered second-degree burns on his back, chest, and face after a friend pulled the same prank on him while he slept. The boy suffered severe burns to his neck and chest. The pair had reportedly looked up the moronic social media craze on YouTube and wanted to try it. “My skin just fell off my chest, and then I looked in the mirror and I had skin falling off here and, on my face,” Kyland Clark told WXIN at the time. An 8-year-old Florida girl was killed in 2017 when she drank boiling water through a straw after being dared to do so by her cousin. Filed under arrest burns crime pennsylvania pranks social media fails 8/9/25 Read Next New Jersey parents could face jail time under town's ordin... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,878 times. 17,878 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers