Aaron Judge’s return still hasn’t jumpstarted Yankees’ lineup
MLB new york yankees Aaron Judge’s return still hasn’t jumpstarted Yankees’ lineup By Dan Martin Published Aug. 8, 2025, 11:53 p.m. ET Access the Yankees beat like never before Join Post Sports+ for exciting subscriber-only features, including real-time texting with Greg Joyce about the inside buzz on the Yankees. Try it free Not even Aaron Judge can save the Yankees these days. After the slugger tied the game in the sixth inning, when the Yankees lineup had its one moment of life on Friday, Judge came up again in the bottom of the ninth with the score tied. This time, though, he popped out to shortstop against Houston closer Josh Hader before Devin Williams’ predictable implosion in the 10th led to another loss, this one 5-3 to Houston. The Yankees have lost two of three games since Judge returned from missing 10 games with a right elbow flexor strain. His presence has not gotten the Yankee going, as he entered the game with one hit in six at-bats and the team has not scored more than three runs in any of his three games. Explore More Giancarlo Stanton holds his own during first outfield chance in two years Luis Gil’s bounce-back outing gave Yankees the positive sign they needed Roger Clemens proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer Judge came up in the bottom of the first with Ben Rice at second after a one-out double — the only base runner the Yankees had against Houston right-hander Hunter Brown until the sixth — and grounded out to short, as the Yankees failed to score in the inning. Aaron Judge walks back to the dugout after striking out in the fourth inning of the Yankees’ 5-3, 10-inning loss to the Astros on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post He flied out to left to end the bottom of the fourth before delivering a run-scoring hit in the sixth. It came after the Yankees finally got going against Brown, who allowed four of the five batters he faced that inning to reach base. Ryan McMahon walked, Austin Wells doubled down the first base line to send McMahon to third before Trent Grisham popped out to shallow left. Rice then came through with an RBI single to right to get the Yankees within a run and Judge followed with a base hit to center that drove in Wells to tie the game at 2-2. Aaron Judge rips an RBI single in the sixth inning of the Yankees’ 10-inning loss to the Astros. Robert Sabo for New York Post But as has so often been the case with the Yankees lately, they were unable to finish the job in the inning. Go beyond the box score with the Bombers Sign up for Inside the Yankees by Greg Joyce, exclusively on Sports+. Thank you Enter your email address Please provide a valid email address. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Enjoy this Post Sports+ exclusive newsletter! Check out more newsletters With runners on the corners and one out, Brown was removed for Bennett Sousa and the lefty got Cody Bellinger swinging and Jazz Chisholm Jr. to fly out to right to keep the game tied. It stayed that way until the 10th, when Williams gave up three runs in the top of the inning and the Yankees only rallied for one in the bottom of the inning to fall for the sixth time in seven games. Filed under aaron judge new york yankees 8/8/25 Read Next Starling Marte thrown out at plate for final out as Mets l... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Yankees Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Houston Astros at New York Yankees Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 11 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets New York Yankees at St. Louis Cardinals Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard