Devin Williams can’t escape misery again as Yankees lose crusher in extras to Astros
MLB new york yankees Devin Williams can’t escape misery again as Yankees lose crusher in extras to Astros By Mark W. Sanchez Published Aug. 8, 2025, 10:56 p.m. ET Access the Yankees beat like never before Join Post Sports+ for exciting subscriber-only features, including real-time texting with Greg Joyce about the inside buzz on the Yankees. Try it free Aaron Boone already had used Yerry De los Santos, Camilo Doval and Luke Weaver to cover four scoreless innings. Weaver, his ninth-inning reliever, had thrown 19 pitches while pitching on a fourth day out of seven, and the manager did not want to risk the health of an invaluable arm by asking for another frame. He could not turn to David Bednar, who expended 42 pitches Wednesday. He did not want to turn to Mark Leiter Jr., who was recently activated from the injured list and pitched Tuesday and Wednesday. A righty pocket of hitters was due up, thus eliminating Tim Hill from the discussion. There was one reliever who might not have made sense but made the most sense to Boone — a pitcher who shortly afterward would say, “I stink right now.” Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer Devin Williams took over in a quality, tense and tie game in which the Yankees had erased a two-run deficit and proceeded to throw it away once again. The polarizing, struggling and perhaps shell-shocked righty entered in the 10th inning to a reception that might generously be referred to as groans and exited to boos that rivaled the reaction to Jose Altuve, imploding in what became a 5-3 loss Friday to the Astros in front of a sellout crowd of 46,027 angry fans in The Bronx. 6 Taylor Trammell celebrates after he scores on his two-run homer during the 10th inning of the Yankees’ 5-3 loss to the Astros on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post CHECK OUT THE LATEST MLB STANDINGS AND YANKEES STATS Between a miserable road trip and a poor start to this home stand, the Yankees (61-55) have dropped six of seven, each seemingly more devastating than the last. “I’m not making pitches. It’s pretty simple,” said Williams, who immediately showed either a lack of poise or a lack of command, his first pitch bounced to the backstop to move the automatic runner to third. Carlos Correa then took advantage of a drawn-in infield and singled up the middle for the go-ahead run. The Yankees caught a break when Yainer Diaz’s drive off the right field wall led to an out — right fielder Amed Rosario crashed against the wall and remained down for several moments, and Christian Walker, who began the play at first base, retreated believing the ball to be caught — but that break was forgotten a batter later. 6 Carlos Correa rounds first base after hitting an RBI single during the 10th inning of the Yankees’ loss to the Astros. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post With two outs in the frame, (briefly) former Yankee Taylor Trammell drilled a home run into the right field seats to essentially clinch a game that left Williams reeling, wildly unpopular in his home ballpark and owning a 5.73 ERA. “The [changeup] to Trammell was terrible,” said Williams, who blew games Monday and Tuesday in Texas and has allowed at least a run in five consecutive appearances. Boone said he has wanted to find “softer landing spots” for Williams, but consistent lack of distance from his rotation — Cam Schlittler lasted five, two-run innings Friday — required him to try to piece together five innings from his bullpen, and he ran out of pitchers. 6 Devin Williams reacts in frustration after giving up a two-run homer during the 10th inning of the Yankees’ loss. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post The pitcher he turned to has allowed 28 earned runs in 44 innings this season. As arguably the best closer in baseball the past three seasons, Williams allowed a total of 26 earned runs. His command — the changeup to Trammell was in the middle of the plate — is an issue. As likely is his confidence. 6 Ben Rice hits an RBI single during the sixth inning of the Yankees’ loss to the Astros. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post “I’m not saying [my confidence is] as high as it’s ever been,” he said. The Yankees scored once against Josh Hader in the bottom of the inning on an Anthony Volpe single, but the potential tying run in Paul Goldschmidt (a fly out) and the potential winning run in Trent Grisham (a line out) could not come through. Fans will target Williams, who came undone in a season in which he has come undone far too many times. 6 Ryan McMahon reacts after he strikes out looking during the seventh inning of the Yankees’ loss to the Astros. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post But the Yankees would not have needed a 10th inning or Williams if their offense had a pulse for most of the contest. Ben Rice doubled in the first inning for the Yankees, who then watched AL Cy Young candidate Hunter Brown sit down the next 14 hitters. A trace of life arrived in the sixth, when the Yankees used three hits — including RBI singles from Rice and Aaron Judge — to tie the game. 6 Aaron Judge of the New York Yankees reacts after he hits an RBI single to tie the game during the sixth inning. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Go beyond the box score with the Bombers Sign up for Inside the Yankees by Greg Joyce, exclusively on Sports+. Thank you Enter your email address Please provide a valid email address. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Enjoy this Post Sports+ exclusive newsletter! Check out more newsletters The Yankees consistently find themselves in close or tie games, nine of their past 12 decided by two runs or fewer. Which means too many are being decided by Williams. “I’m close,” Williams said. “It’s come down to essentially one mistake and making me pay for it.” Filed under cam schlittler devin williams houston astros new york yankees 8/8/25 Read Next David Stearns not placing blame on this when it come to Me... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Yankees Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Houston Astros at New York Yankees Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 11 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets New York Yankees at St. Louis Cardinals Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Taylor Trammell celebrates after he scores on his two-run homer during the 10th inning of the Yankees' 5-3 loss to the Astros on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Carlos Correa rounds first base after hitting an RBI single during the 10th inning of the Yankees' loss to the Astros. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Devin Williams reacts in frustration after giving up a two-run homer during the 10th inning of the Yankees' loss. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Ben Rice hits an RBI single during the sixth inning of the Yankees' loss to the Astros. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Ryan McMahon reacts after he strikes out looking during the seventh inning of the Yankees' loss to the Astros. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Aaron Judge of the New York Yankees reacts after he hits an RBI single to tie the game during the sixth inning. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post You are viewing 1 of 6 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement