Rep. Jasmine Crockett laughs off troubling accusations she’s a no-show ‘diva’ boss, quotes Beyoncé  in bizarre response
Politics Rep. Jasmine Crockett laughs off troubling accusations she’s a no-show ‘diva’ boss, quotes Beyoncé in bizarre response By Victor Nava Published Aug. 8, 2025, 10:13 p.m. ET Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D-Texas) invoked Beyonce and laughed off troubling accusations about her workplace behavior on Thursday when asked about The Post’s exclusive report on her “diva” antics on Capitol Hill. Crockett’s response to allegations that she’s a boss from hell came after she repeatedly refused requests for comment from The Post. Former congressional aides told The Post that Crockett terrorizes her staff and rarely shows up at the office for work. Getty Images The congresswoman erupted in laughter when asked about the report during an interview on “The Takeout with Major Garrett” on CBS News. “Oh my goodness, listen, I know that I have arrived, honey,” Crockett said, after composing herself. “That is the way that I see this.” “Because as Beyoncé says, if they’re not talking about you, then obviously you must not be doing anything,” she added. Explore More Trump critic Rep. Jasmine Crockett is a no-show boss from hell who terrorizes staffers, aides say: ‘All diva, no wow’ Far-left Rep. Jasmine Crockett calls Trump a ‘piece of s–t’ in latest rant against the president Jasmine Crockett blasts AOC, Bernie Sanders for self-serving ‘Fighting Oligarchy’ tour: ‘Oh, it’s about them’ Multiple former staffers and congressional aides that have worked with Crockett described the Dallas-area rep as “rude,” rarely present in the office and a terror to work with when she does show up. “She is focused almost exclusively on being an influencer, not a member of Congress,” one source said, describing Crockett as “all diva, no wow.” “She is laying around her apartment, won’t come into the office, and is really just indifferent to staff and will scream at them,” a former aide said, claiming that the foul-mouthed congresswoman “freaks out over the most random things.” Another source indicated that Crockett demands staffers rent high-end vehicles– “has to be an Escalade” – to chauffeur her to and from the Capitol every week. “She expects her staff to drive her around while she’s in the back seat,” the source added, calling it a “power play” akin to “treating the staffer like an Uber driver.” Crockett slammed allegations made by former congressional aides as “slander.” CBS News/YouTube In her interview with CBS News, Crockett did not address the specific allegations from congressional staffers but called the report “more slander, more nonsense, more lies.” “And honestly, I don’t think that the New York Post would probably be the first ones to be able to figure out if I was a boss from hell,” she said dismissively, touting her “five and a half years” of public service. The congresswoman has only served about four and half years in public office. “I have happily served on the state level for – I did two years there, and now I am at year two and a half on the federal level,” she said before flubbing the 4th-grade math problem. “All of a sudden I’m this terrible person and terrible boss? Yeah, I don’t think so,” Crockett continued. The congresswoman went on to bemoan “all of the scrutiny that comes with being not only a woman, but being young and being a black woman.” “Your hate is my motivation,” she added. “So keep hating. All it does is motivate me to continue to do what I do.” Filed under congress democratic party jasmine crockett us house of representatives 8/8/25 Read Next How Trump’s Armenia-Azerbaijan deal gives US key ‘leve... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 47,711 times. 47,711 This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women This story has been shared 46,922 times. 46,922 Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain This story has been shared 36,621 times. 36,621 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.8K comments. 2.8K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Howard Stern reportedly ‘can’t stand’ fellow SiriusXM host Alex Cooper of ‘Call Her Daddy,’ avoids her in New York Justin Bieber has his hands full in nothing but tighty-whities and combat boots Brooklyn Beckham gives rare insight into Nicola Peltz marriage after ‘beautiful’ wedding vow renewal See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All