Lions-Falcons game suspended after Morice Norris leaves in ambulance in scary injury scene
NFL Lions-Falcons game suspended after Morice Norris leaves in ambulance in scary injury scene By Andrew Battifarano Published Aug. 8, 2025 Updated Aug. 9, 2025, 12:42 a.m. ET Friday’s NFL preseason slate came with a scary moment. The Lions-Falcons game was suspended in the fourth quarter after Detroit defensive back Morice Norris left the game in an ambulance with an apparent head or neck injury when he collided with Atlanta’s Nathan Carter. 4 Detroit’s Morice Norris is tended to by medical staff during the fourth quarter the Lions preseason road game against the Falcons on Aug. 8, 2025 which was suspended after his scary injury. Getty Images Head coach Dan Campbell said Norris was breathing and had movement while at Grady Memorial Hospital when speaking to reporters after the game. Hours after the contest, the Lions posted on social media that the defensive back was in “stable condition” but remaining at the hospital. “Morice Norris is in stable condition and has feeling and movement in all his extremities,” the team wrote on X. “He will remain at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta overnight for observation. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer “We would like to thank the Atlanta Falcons organization, the EMS team at Mercedes-Benz Stadium and the doctors and staff at Grady for their support. On the first play of the fourth quarter, Norris went to tackle Carter when the running back’s knee appeared to slam into the safety’s facemask, sending his head backward. 4 Detroit’s Morice Norris is tended to by medical staff during the fourth quarter the Lions preseason road game against the Falcons on Aug. 8, 2025 which was suspended after his scary injury. Getty Images 4 Atlanta Falcons and Detroit Lions players stand on the field hand in hand together after Detroit Lions safety Morice Norris was injured. AP Norris stayed down on the turf at Mercedes-Benz Stadium before being placed on a backboard and placed in an ambulance. Once play was set to resume, the ball was snapped by the Falcons before the 22 players on the field formed a circle, holding hands near midfield. 4 Detroit safety Morice Norris (26) is hit in the helmet by Falcons running back Nathan Carter during the fourth quarter. AP They let the game clock run down, and the proceedings were suspended with a little over six minutes remaining and the Lions leading 17-10. “I’ll start off with this, obviously, thoughts and prayers are with Mo Norris,” Campbell said in his postgame press conference. “We got some positive information on him, that he’s at the hospital. I’ll just have to leave it at that, but when something like that happens, it puts things into perspective. So, we are just praying for Mo. “He’s breathing. He’s talking. That’s good. He’s got some movement. And now they’re running more tests.” The 24-year-old signed as an undrafted free agent out of Fresno State last year, appearing in two regular season games. “I don’t think anyone on that sideline wanted to play,” Lions quarterback Kyle Allen told reporters. “We weren’t part of that decision, but you could just look in everyone’s eyes and see it wasn’t worth it.” Filed under atlanta falcons detroit lions 8/8/25 Read Next Panthers' Xavier Legette, Browns' Rayshawn Jenkins brawl i... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Detroit's Morice Norris is tended to by medical staff during the fourth quarter the Lions preseason road game against the Falcons on Aug. 8, 2025 which was suspended after his scary injury. Getty Images Detroit's Morice Norris is tended to by medical staff during the fourth quarter the Lions preseason road game against the Falcons on Aug. 8, 2025 which was suspended after his scary injury. Getty Images Atlanta Falcons and Detroit Lions players stand on the field hand in hand together after Detroit Lions safety Morice Norris was injured. AP Detroit safety Morice Norris (26) is hit in the helmet by Falcons running back Nathan Carter during the fourth quarter. AP You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement