Fort Stewart soldier credits Army training for heroically grabbing gun from accused shooter Quornelius Radford
US News Fort Stewart soldier credits Army training for heroically grabbing gun from accused shooter Quornelius Radford By Shane Galvin Published Aug. 8, 2025, 9:58 p.m. ET A heroic Fort Stewart soldier who stopped accused mass shooter Quornelius Radford said his Army training took over in the moments he confronted the suspect on Wednesday. Sgt. Aaron Turner, who knows the alleged Army base shooter, initially tried to calm the 28-year-old down and distract him from targeting “leadership” — but had to make a courageous grasp for the weapon before any more people got hurt. “I ended up taking charge by grabbing the barrel and the extended magazine at that point,” Turner told the Associated Press. Sgt. Aaron Turner knew accused gunman Sgt. Radford and attempted to talk him down before snatching the weapon. ASSOCIATED PRESS “Pretty much training just ended up kicking in at that point. It wasn’t about my life at that point, it was about the soldiers and the personnel. Making sure they get out safely.” Prior to the heroic disarming, Turner revealed that he tried to talk Radford down during the incident which had Fort Stewart on lockdown for over 40 minutes. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' “I was pretty much asking him ‘what was going on’ and pretty much why he was getting to the point of doing that,” Turner told the outlet. “He just pretty much got to the point of telling me ‘Get out of here.’ Pretty much that he’s not going to end up hurting soldiers, just leadership.” Turner was one of six soldiers at Fort Stewart to receive the Meritorious Service Medal for stopping the shooting spree which injured five people. Army Secretary Dan Driscoll comforts Sergeant Aaron Turner after Turner received the Meritorious Service Medal. AP Officials have not announced a motive for the shooting. Radford sent a cryptic text message to his aunt before Wednesday’s shooting, writing, “he loved everybody and that he’ll be in a better place because he was about to go do something,” The New York Times reported. Two soldiers who knew Radford in 2018 while in training at Fort Lee said he was relentlessly mocked for having a speech impediment. Back in January, Radford posted on Facebook that he lost a loved one in a wrong-way crash and that he was drinking alcohol to “make that pain feeling go away,” NBC reported citing friends. In May, Radford was arrested for driving under the influence in Hinesville, Ga., a small town near Fort Stewart. Filed under army georgia mass shootings 8/8/25 Read Next Cop killed near Emory University, CDC HQ hailed as dedicat... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,878 times. 17,878 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers