Malcom-Jamal Warner ‘did not suffer’ in final moments as his mom breaks silence on actor’s drowning death at 54
Celebrities Malcolm-Jamal Warner ‘did not suffer’ in final moments as his mom breaks silence on actor’s drowning death at 54 By Connor Surmonte Published Aug. 8, 2025, 9:50 p.m. ET New details have come to light following Malcolm-Jamal Warner’s shocking passing last month at age 54. “The Cosby Show” actor’s mother, Pamela Warner, took to Instagram Friday, Aug. 8, to reveal that her beloved son “did not suffer” when he drowned while on a family trip in Costa Rica on July 20. 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner and his mother, Pamela Warner, attending the 38th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium in Pasadena, California, on September 21, 1986. Ron Galella Collection via Getty Images 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner and his mother, Pamela Warner, at the 12th annual Mark Twain Prize for American Humor at the John F. Kennedy Center in Washington, DC, on October 26, 2009. Getty Images “For those of you who are at a loss, pained by the suddenness of his departure, ache for his presence or just to hear his voice one more time, to see his beatific smile one more time, be comforted that he was at peace and more importantly, he did not suffer,” she wrote. “Malcolm was birthed through water and transitioned through water. This was his time. His mission on earth had been completed,” the late actor’s mom added. Explore More Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain How Reba McEntire supported ex-stepson Brandon Blackstock in final months before his death Jamie Lee Curtis gives blunt response to Pamela Anderson and Liam Neeson's romance Warner’s mother previously took to Instagram on Wednesday to start the “Malcolm-Jamal Warner Living Legacy” account. 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner Living Legacy post by mother Pamela Warner Aug 8, 2025 mjwlivinglegacy/Instagram 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner’s mother shared this message on Instagram on Friday, Aug. 8. mjwlivinglegacy/Instagram She announced it was the “official account honoring Malcolm-Jamal Warner” and that “in the weeks and months ahead, we’ll be sharing updates on the work being done in his memory.” Besides revealing that the Emmy-nominated actor “did not suffer,” she also remembered Warner as an “exceptional husband, father, and son” who was “deeply in love with life, his wife, and his daughter.” “He was a kind, loving man with a huge heart for humanity. He wanted all to be aware of their inner strength and that they could succeed, accomplish and transform,” Pamela wrote. “This was his latest mission and work, transformation, in order for you to be fully present in your life.” “Malcolm left an indelible mark on the world and on countless hearts,” she added. “All who met him, however briefly, were better for the encounter.” 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner and his mother, Pamela Warner, attending “Native Son” at the Apollo Theater in New York City, New York, on December 8, 1986. Ron Galella Collection via Getty Images 11 Pamela Warner and Malcolm-Jamal Warner at the 57th annual Grammy Awards at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California, on February 8, 2015. WireImage Pamela added that she was “honored and blessed” to be Warner’s mother. “As his mother, there is so much that I can say. It would fill volumes,” she wrote. “But what I will say, is that I am so very blessed that he chose me to be his mother, to come into the world through the waters of my womb.” “It is an honor and blessing that will be with me all the days of my life,” she concluded. 11 Pamela Warner and Malcolm-Jamal Warner at the 57th annual Grammy Nominee Celebration in West Hollywood, California, on January 17, 2015. WireImage for NARAS Warner, who starred as Bill Cosby’s on-screen son Heathcliff Huxtable on “The Cosby Show” from 1984 to 1992, tragically drowned to death on July 20 while swimming during a vacation to Costa Rica. The Caribbean Guard, Costa Rica’s volunteer lifeguard association, confirmed the devastating news on Facebook. “We deeply regret the passing of Malcolm-Jamal Warner at Playa Grande,” they wrote. “He was swept away by a strong rip current and died by drowning.” Costa Rica’s Judicial Investigation Agency (OIJ) shared additional details regarding Warner’s death. 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner as Theodore “Theo” Huxtable during Season 7 of “The Cosby Show.” NBCUniversal via Getty Images 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner shared this picture on Instagram on May 14, 2025. malcolmjamalwar/Instagram “Mr. Warner was playing with his daughter at the seashore at one point. He then left her out of the water, and he and a friend of his entered the sea,” the agency told People in a statement translated from Spanish to English. “It was at that moment that they were swept away by the current, and the friend managed to get out,” the OIJ added. “However, Mr. Warner was unable to get out and was pulled out by several people on the beach. He received care from Red Cross officials, but was pronounced dead at the scene.” Warner’s body was later transported to a morgue in San Joaquin de Flores for an autopsy, and his cause of death was determined to be asphyxiation by submersion. 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner and the cast of “The Cosby Show during the show’s seventh season. NBCUniversal via Getty Images Several of Warner’s former co-stars have paid tribute to the late actor. “A week ago I lost my big brother, but I gained an angel…,” Keshia Knight Pulliam, who played Rudy Huxtable on “The Cosby Show,” wrote on Instagram. “I love you… I miss you… We got our girls.” Bill Cosby, who played Cliff Huxtable on the show, also reacted to Warner’s tragic death. 11 Malcolm-Jamal Warner attends SCAD aTVfest in Atlanta, Georgia, on February 29, 2020. Getty Images for SCAD aTVfest 2020 The comedian, 88, compared Warner’s passing to losing his own son, Ennis Cosby, who was murdered in 1997 at 27. His rep, Andrew Wyatt, also told The Post that Cosby “spoke to Phylicia Rashad earlier today and they reminisced about Malcolm.” Rashad, 77, played Warner’s on-screen mother, Clair Huxtable, on “The Cosby Show” for all eight seasons. Filed under celebrity deaths drownings instagram malcolm-jamal warner the cosby show 8/8/25 Read Next Brandon Blackstock's brother speaks out after Kelly Clarks... Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 11 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 20 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 12 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 48,627 times. 48,627 This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women This story has been shared 48,446 times. 48,446 Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain This story has been shared 37,637 times. 37,637 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 32,838 times. 32,838 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 Listen Now Now on Page Six Howard Stern reportedly ‘can’t stand’ fellow SiriusXM host Alex Cooper of ‘Call Her Daddy,’ avoids her in New York Justin Bieber has his hands full in nothing but tighty-whities and combat boots Brooklyn Beckham gives rare insight into Nicola Peltz marriage after ‘beautiful’ wedding vow renewal See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Malcolm-Jamal Warner and his mother, Pamela Warner, attending the 38th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium in Pasadena, California, on September 21, 1986. Ron Galella Collection via Getty Images Malcolm-Jamal Warner and his mother, Pamela Warner, at the 12th annual Mark Twain Prize for American Humor at the John F. Kennedy Center in Washington, DC, on October 26, 2009. Getty Images mjwlivinglegacy/Instagram Malcolm-Jamal Warner's mother shared this message on Instagram on Friday, Aug. 8. mjwlivinglegacy/Instagram Malcolm-Jamal Warner and his mother, Pamela Warner, attending "Native Son" at the Apollo Theater in New York City, New York, on December 8, 1986. Ron Galella Collection via Getty Images Pamela Warner and Malcolm-Jamal Warner at the 57th annual Grammy Awards at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California, on February 8, 2015. WireImage Pamela Warner and Malcolm-Jamal Warner at the 57th annual Grammy Nominee Celebration in West Hollywood, California, on January 17, 2015. WireImage for NARAS Malcolm-Jamal Warner as Theodore "Theo" Huxtable during Season 7 of "The Cosby Show." NBCUniversal via Getty Images Malcolm-Jamal Warner shared this picture on Instagram on May 14, 2025. malcolmjamalwar/Instagram Malcolm-Jamal Warner and the cast of "The Cosby Show during the show's seventh season. NBCUniversal via Getty Images Malcolm-Jamal Warner attends SCAD aTVfest in Atlanta, Georgia, on February 29, 2020. Getty Images for SCAD aTVfest 2020 You are viewing 1 of 11 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement