Liberty squeeze out win over Wings for third straight victory after complacency nearly cost them
WNBA new york liberty Liberty squeeze out win over Wings for third straight victory after complacency nearly costs them By Madeline Kenney Published Aug. 8, 2025 Updated Aug. 8, 2025, 11:04 p.m. ET We’ve got you covered on the Liberty beat Join Post Sports+ for exciting subscriber-only features, including real-time texting with Madeline Kenney about all things Liberty and WNBA. tRY IT NOW DALLAS — The Liberty looked so much better to start Friday’s game against the Wings than the last time they were at College Park Center. The ball was humming and the team was in sync. The Liberty’s starters scored 42 of the team’s 50 points in the first half and led by 16 at the break. But Sandy Brondello can’t be thrilled by what happened in the second half. New York’s complacency reared its ugly head in the third quarter and at one point in the fourth. The game got too close — at least for a moment — but the Liberty managed to survive, beating Dallas 88-77. 4 Li Yueru shoots the ball as Emma Meesseman (right) defends during the Liberty’s 88-77 road win over the Wings on Aug. 8, 2025. Jerome Miron-Imagn Images Explore More Sandy Brondello sits on the edge of making Liberty history: ‘She’s gonna build her legacy’ Sabrina Ionescu a dark horse in MVP race with Napheesa Collier battling injury Liberty assistant Sonia Raman talks her coaching journey, NBA influence, ‘most rewarding’ part of career 4 Leonie Fiebich drives past Arike Ogunbowale and Li Yueru during the first half of the Liberty’s road win over the Wings. AP “We know the game is a game of runs,” said Leonie Fiebich, who finished with 14 points before fouling out late in the fourth for the first time in her WNBA career. “So they went on theirs and then we kind of fell back. Luckily, we have really experienced players that make big plays in the right moments and that’s what we relied on.” The Wings, who were without star rookie Paige Bueckers (back), outscored the Liberty 23-14 in the third quarter and cut New York’s 18-point lead down to three at one point. 4 Sabrina Ionescu calls out a play during the second quarter of the Liberty’s road win over the Wings. Getty Images But the Liberty, led by Jonquel Jones, Sabrina Ionescu, and Fiebich got it together early in the fourth and managed to keep the Wings at bay to capture their third straight win and Brondello’s 100th win with the Liberty. Emma Meesseman helped the Liberty get off to a strong start. In the first half, she had 14 points on 6-of-7 shooting, six rebounds, four assists, two steals and a blocked shot. She faded in the second half. The Liberty had six players finish with 10 or more points, including Fiebich who fouled out late in the fourth but finished with 14 points. 4 Leonie Fiebich (13) looks to move the ball past Arike Ogunbowale (24) and Li Yueru (28) during the first half of the Liberty’s win over the Wings. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect New York (20-10) is set to host the Lynx Sunday in Brooklyn before embarking on a three-game road trip out west. The WNBA announced Friday that the league is working with local and federal law enforcement and seeking potential arrests and prosecution of “anyone engaged in this conduct or otherwise involved in sponsoring this reckless and unacceptable behavior” after at least six sex toys have been tossed during games. “The safety of everyone in our arenas remains a top priority,” a league spokesperson said. Covering the Liberty like never before Sign up for Madeline Kenney's Inside the Liberty, a weekly Sports+ newsletter. Thank you Enter your email address Please provide a valid email address. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Enjoy this Post Sports+ exclusive newsletter! Check out more newsletters The WNBA’s statement comes in the wake of a cryptocurrency group claiming responsibility for orchestrating the obscene acts. The Liberty on Sunday are planning to induct Tari Phillips into the franchise’s illustrious Ring of Honor. Phillips, who is second all time in rebounding for the franchise, will be the team’s first Ring of Honor induction since 2021 and will join seven other Liberty legends, including Teresa Weatherspoon, Becky Hammon and Vickie Johnson. Brondello, who played during the same era as Phillips, believes it’s a well-deserved honor for the four-time All-Star. “The New York teams were just tough, and that was what Tari brought,” Brondello said. “She was just tough. She was always rebounding, setting big screens, rolling, creating … you name it.” Filed under dallas wings new york liberty sabrina ionescu 8/8/25 Read Next Liberty star in MVP discussion with Lynx star battling inj... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Knicks Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Minnesota Timberwolves at New York Knicks Oct 09 2025 | Get Tickets Washington Wizards at New York Knicks Oct 13 2025 | Get Tickets Cleveland Cavaliers at New York Knicks Dec 25 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Li Yueru shoots the ball as Emma Meesseman (right) defends during the Liberty's 88-77 road win over the Wings on Aug. 8, 2025. Jerome Miron-Imagn Images Leonie Fiebich drives past Arike Ogunbowale and Li Yueru during the first half of the Liberty's road win over the Wings. AP Sabrina Ionescu calls out a play during the second quarter of the Liberty's road win over the Wings. Getty Images Leonie Fiebich (13) looks to move the ball past Arike Ogunbowale (24) and Li Yueru (28) during the first half of the Liberty's win over the Wings. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement