Georgia cop killed near Emory University, CDC HQ hailed as dedicated officer who leaves behind pregnant wife, 3 kids
US News Georgia cop killed near Emory University, CDC HQ hailed as dedicated officer who leaves behind pregnant wife, 2 kids By Anna Young Published Aug. 8, 2025 Updated Aug. 8, 2025, 11:53 p.m. ET The Georgia officer killed when a deranged gunman opened fire on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention headquarters was known for his deep commitment to serving his community, leaving behind a pregnant wife and two children, police said. DeKalb County officer David Rose, 33, was shot by the unidentified masked attacker who unleashed a barrage of bullets on the health agency before storming into a CVS located on the Emory University campus in Atlanta around 4:50 p.m. Friday, the police department announced. The gunman was also found shot at the scene, though police are unsure if his fatal wound was self-inflicted. 7 DeKalb County Sheriff officer David Rose was killed in the shooting on Aug. 8, 2025. DeKalb County Police Department/Facebook 7 Police have confirmed that a DeKalb County police officer was killed in the shooting near Emory University and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention building in Atlanta. AP Law enforcement sources told CNN the shooter likely targeted the CDC after he became sick with an apparent illness he blamed on the COVID-19 vaccine, according to police interviews with the suspect’s family. Explore More Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Police ID deranged shooter who killed cop after unleashing barrage of bullets on CDC, Emory University campus Labubu craze could spell doom for the economy, expert warns Gunshots first rang out Friday at about 5 p.m., prompting Emory University to issue an urgent alert reporting an active shooter near the Emory Point CVS on campus and urging all students to “RUN” and “HIDE.” Local, state and federal officers swarmed the harrowing scene, with chilling photos shared on social media showing bullet holes piercing the windows of the CDC’s building, located right next to the University. Atlanta Police Chief Darin Schierbaum said the shooter sprayed multiple rounds at law enforcement and the health agency, which also houses a daycare caring for 92 children, all of whom were unharmed. 7 Georgia law enforcement gather outside the Centers for Disease Control Global Headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia on Aug. 8, 2025. Getty Images One police cruiser at the scene also appeared to have been hit by about a dozen gunshots to its windshield and hood. The CDC Atlanta campus was on lockdown following the shooting. Rose – the heroic officer who joined the department in September 2024 – was rushed to Emory University Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. 7 The heroic officer, who joined the department in September 2024, was rushed to Emory University Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. REUTERS “It is with profound sadness and heavy hearts that we announced the passing of Officer David Rose who was tragically killed in the line of duty,” the police department said in a news release late Friday night. “Officer Rose served DeKalb County with courage, integrity, and unwavering dedication. Even in the face of danger he was diligent in his duty to protect our community.” Police said Rose was responding to the chaotic scene alongside local, state, and federal law enforcement partners when he was struck by the fatal gunfire. 7 The gunman also was killed in the shooting, although it’s unclear if it was self-inflicted or by an officer. Getty Images He leaves behind his pregnant wife and two children. “This evening, there is a wife without a husband,” DeKalb County CEO Lorraine Cochran-Johnson told reporters Friday night. 7 Emergency vehicles block a road outside Emory University and the CDC headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia following a shooting on Aug. 8, 2025. REUTERS 7 The gunman had stormed into a CVS on the Emory campus. AP “There are three children, one unborn, without a father. There is a mother and a father, as well as siblings who also share in this traumatic loss. Let’s join together to give this family the support it needs during this traumatic loss.” Authorities confirmed that no other civilians were injured in the shooting and there is no longer an active threat. Filed under atlanta cdc Colleges and universities COVID vaccine mass shootings 8/8/25 Read Next Bronx woman driving 77 mph in 25 mph zone indicted for kil... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 36,723 times. 36,723 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 26,337 times. 26,337 Police ID deranged shooter who killed cop after unleashing barrage of bullets on CDC, Emory University campus This story has been shared 18,089 times. 18,089 Labubu craze could spell doom for the economy, expert warns This story has been shared 11,133 times. 11,133 Newly released crime scene photos show inside Idaho house where Bryan Kohberger killed four college students Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.8K comments. 2.8K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Howard Stern reportedly ‘can’t stand’ fellow SiriusXM host Alex Cooper of ‘Call Her Daddy,’ avoids her in New York Justin Bieber has his hands full in nothing but tighty-whities and combat boots Brooklyn Beckham gives rare insight into Nicola Peltz marriage after ‘beautiful’ wedding vow renewal See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers DeKalb County Sheriff officer David Rose was killed in the shooting on Aug. 8, 2025. DeKalb County Police Department/Facebook Police have confirmed that a DeKalb County police officer was killed in the shooting near Emory University and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention building in Atlanta. AP Georgia law enforcement gather outside the Centers for Disease Control Global Headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia on Aug. 8, 2025. Getty Images The heroic officer, who joined the department in September 2024, was rushed to Emory University Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. REUTERS The gunman also was killed in the shooting, although it's unclear if it was self-inflicted or by an officer. Getty Images Emergency vehicles block a road outside Emory University and the CDC headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia following a shooting on Aug. 8, 2025. REUTERS The gunman had stormed into a CVS on the Emory campus. AP You are viewing 1 of 7 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement