Panthers’ Xavier Legette, Browns’ Rayshawn Jenkins brawl in first preseason game
NFL Panthers’ Xavier Legette, Browns’ Rayshawn Jenkins brawl in first preseason game By Dylan Svoboda Published Aug. 8, 2025, 8:47 p.m. ET It didn’t take long to get our first fight of the NFL preseason. Carolina wide receiver Xavier Legette and Cleveland safety Rayshawn Jenkins exchanged blows during the first quarter of the Browns’ 30-10 preseason road win over the Panthers at Bank of America Stadium. Rayshawn Jenkins and Xavier Legette have been ejected after fighting during the Browns-Panthers preseason game. pic.twitter.com/uSacHLe6uo — The Sports Place (@offsportsplace) August 8, 2025 4 The moment Xavier Legette and Rayshawn Jenkins started going at it. Mr Matthew CFB/X After a play, Jenkins appeared to grab Legette’s face mask, which the wide receiver took exception to. Legette began to throw punches as he fell to the ground. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer “You can’t have that,” Panthers coach Dave Canales said. “As soon as you throw a punch, we are at a disadvantage.” 4 Xavier Legette threw several punches before falling to the ground. @N0TH1N0/X Jenkins seemed to rip the helmet off of Legette before referees and players from both teams intervened. 4 Rayshawn Jenkins appeared to rip off the helmet of Xavier Legette. @N0TH1N0/X Both players were thrown out of the game. FOX Sports Radio1340’s Sheena Quick reported that Jenkins threw a helmet at Panthers running back Chuba Hubbard during a joint practice between the teams on Wednesday, which may have led to the skirmish. Rayshawn Jenkins and Xavier Leggette have been ejected pic.twitter.com/9u4FQEflDZ — Mr Matthew CFB (@MrMatthew_CFB) August 8, 2025 4 Xavier Legette throwing a punch at Rayshawn Jenkins. @N0TH1N0/X Legette is entering his second season in Carolina after being drafted in the first round of the 2024 NFL Draft by the Panthers. Jenkins signed with the Browns in May after being released by the Seahawks two months earlier. Shedeur Sanders threw two touchdown passes in his NFL debut to lead Cleveland to the win. Filed under carolina panthers cleveland browns sports fights 8/8/25 Read Next Shedeur Sanders connects for first two NFL touchdowns in i... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard The moment Xavier Legette and Rayshawn Jenkins started going at it. Mr Matthew CFB/X Xavier Legette threw several punches before falling to the ground. @N0TH1N0/X Rayshawn Jenkins appeared to rip off the helmet of Xavier Legette. @N0TH1N0/X Xavier Legette throwing a punch at Rayshawn Jenkins. @N0TH1N0/X You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement