Shedeur Sanders connects for first two NFL touchdowns in impressive Browns debut
NFL Shedeur Sanders connects for first two NFL touchdowns in impressive Browns debut By Andrew Battifarano Published Aug. 8, 2025, 8:42 p.m. ET Before his son Shedeur Sanders’ first NFL preseason game, Pro Football Hall of Famer Deion Sanders made one “promise” about the quarterback’s NFL future. “He’s going to be a problem after tonight, I promise you that,” the Colorado head football coach said. If Friday’s Browns-Panthers game was a preview, there might be some credence to that guarantee. Shedeur Sanders celebrates after throwing a touchdown pass in the first half of the Browns’ 30-10 preseason road win over the Panthers on Aug. 8, 2025. AP The younger Sanders made his debut for Cleveland, connecting for two touchdown passes in a 30-10 win on the road. Sanders, playing most of the first three quarters, went 14-for-23 on his pass attempts for 138 yards. He rushed for 19 yards. Explore More LeBron James leads charge in celebrating Shedeur Sanders’ stellar Browns debut Shedeur Sanders confronts Browns beat reporter over ‘negative stuff’ after stellar preseason debut How Browns coach Kevin Stefanski views QB competition after Shedeur Sanders dazzles The 23-year-old finished with a 106.8 passer rating and did not throw an interception. “I did some good and bad. I know moving forward I won’t do the same mistakes twice, whatever the decision is,” Sanders told reporters after the game. After the Browns recovered a muffed punt late in the first quarter, Sanders — taking over for his fourth drive — was set up for his first red zone chance. He did not miss. Shedeur Sanders to Kaden Davis AGAIN for the TD! CLEvsCAR on @NFLNetwork Stream on @NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/9ucfAJiMNY — NFL (@NFL) August 9, 2025 On second down from the 7-yard line, Sanders faked a handoff and rolled to his left and waited a beat before floating a perfect ball toward the back of the end zone between two Panthers defensive backs and into the hands of Kaden Davis for a touchdown. It elicited an excited response from his proud dad. “Yes Lawd! Yes! @ShedeurSanders,” Deion wrote on X. On the Browns’ final full series of the first half, Sanders led a 60-yard drive, finishing it off with a 12-yard strike to a diving Davis for his second score of the night. Shedeur Sanders looks to pass during the Browns’ preseason road win over the Panthers. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect “I wasn’t nervous, so I didn’t really have too much adrenaline,” Sanders said. “It was just getting comfortable, that’s all it is. There were plenty of games before I was nervous, but I felt like I knew the answers to the test.” See Also Panthers’ Xavier Legette, Browns’ Rayshawn Jenkins brawl in first preseason game He helped lead one more touchdown drive in the third quarter, throwing two completions for 25 yards before Gage Larvadain scampered into the end zone on a four-yard run. “I’m uncomfortable being uncomfortable,” Sanders said. “I got pockets of finding my rhythm, and I got to get into that quicker. … But overall, I felt like me out there.” “Honestly, I’m pleased with the way Shedeur played,” head coach Kevin Stefanski said. “I’m pleased with the way the offense operated tonight.” Sanders, who slipped to the Browns in the fifth round of the 2025 NFL Draft, started off slow, with the team calling some conservative plays early on a three-and-out first series and the QB completing his first pass (for four yards) short of the first-down sticks. He showed off his versatility with a 10-yard scramble on the next series, which ended deep in Panthers territory after the Browns went for it on fourth-and-1 and failed when Sanders threw the ball away after nearly getting sacked. But in leading three scoring drives, Sanders flashed the promise —though he admitted there was some sloppiness, including taking two sacks — he had when he starred under his dad at Colorado. “I know I’m ready for the moment,” Sanders added. “Did I play up to par? No, I don’t feel like I did. But the main goal was to win.” Filed under cleveland browns deion sanders shedeur sanders 8/8/25 Read Next Tom Brady takes shot at Jets fans as Patriots unveil his s... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at Green Bay Packers Aug 09 2025 | Get Tickets New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard