Tom Brady doesn’t hesitate to troll Jets fans as Patriots unveil his statue
NFL Tom Brady takes shot at Jets fans as Patriots unveil his statue By Camden Markel Published Aug. 8, 2025, 8:36 p.m. ET Years of dominance earned Tom Brady this jest for Jets fans. The Patriots unveiled a new statue for Brady outside Gillette Stadium, and Brady couldn’t help but poke a little bit of fun at Gang Green’s supporters. 4 Tom Brady spoke to fans during his statue unveiling and had jokes for Jets fans. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect “But in the end, the statue isn’t just for Pats fans,” Brady said. “It’ll also give all the Jets fans something to throw their beers at as they leave the stadium every year. Probably in the second quarter. Maybe the third.” Brady, of course, spent 20 incredible seasons with the Patriots in which he won six of his seven Super Bowl titles and cemented himself as perhaps the greatest player of all time. 4 Brady’s statue is just outside the Patriots’ stadium. Getty Images Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer Those Super Bowls wins and three MVP awards with New England were just a part of the dominance, as Brady comfortably ran the AFC East, including posting a dominant 31-8 career record against the Jets. The Jets did manage one playoff win against Brady and the Patriots in two tries. In Brady’s 20 seasons with New England, the Patriots won the AFC East 17 times. Of the three times that they didn’t take the division title, Brady wasn’t the starter yet for one of them and was injured for another. 4 The Patriots’ new Tom Brady statue. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect To the Jets’ credit, their 9-7 record in 2002 won the AFC East in Brady’s lone healthy season in which he didn’t win the division. The Patriots were also 9-7 and split the season series against New York. Brady’s statue, including the base it sits on, stands at 17 feet tall to represent the 17 division titles. 4 Tom Brady against the Jets in 2019. Anthony J Causi From foot to head, the statue measures 12 feet to represent Brady’s retired iconic No. 12. Across Brady’s 39 career games against the Jets, he racked up 9,570 passing yards and 64 touchdowns to just 17 interceptions — that’s an average of 290 yards and nearly two touchdowns per game. Filed under new england patriots new york jets tom brady 8/8/25 Read Next Texans get crucial injury update on C.J. Gardner-Johnson Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Vivid Sports Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Tom Brady spoke to fans during his statue unveiling and had jokes for Jets fans. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect Brady's statue is just outside the Patriots' stadium. Getty Images The Patriots' new Tom Brady statue. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect Tom Brady against the Jets in 2019. Anthony J Causi You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement