Knicks finalizing deal to bring in Chris Jent as associate head coach as Mike Brown’s staff takes shape
NBA new york knicks Knicks finalizing deal to bring in Chris Jent as associate head coach as Mike Brown’s staff takes shape By Brian Lewis Published Aug. 8, 2025 Updated Aug. 8, 2025, 11:07 p.m. ET The Knicks are finalizing an agreement to make Chris Jent their associate head coach. The news was first reported by The Post’s Stefan Bondy. There should be an air of familiarity for Jent, 55, who grew up in New Jersey and even played for the Knicks, upon his assumption of the top assistant job. The move also marks a reunion with newly hired head coach Mike Brown, Jent having worked under Brown from 2006-10 in Cleveland. Jent then stayed on the following season after the Brown’s departure. 3 Chris Jent of the Hornets celebrates after winning the 2025 NBA Summer League Championship Game against the Kings on July 20, 2025 in Las Vegas. NBAE via Getty Images Now, Jent will work under him again, leaving the Charlotte Hornets to become New York’s de facto offensive coordinator. The Knicks pursued Pacers assistant Mike Weinar for that spot, according to SNY, before he opted to stay with the NBA finalists under head coach Rick Carlisle. That came after the Knicks already had failed to land assistants like the Timberwolves’ Pablo Prigioni, the Mavericks’ Jay Triano or the Pelicans’ James Borrego. Explore More Knicks-Cavaliers Christmas Day matchup is a true NBA present Ali Brunson giving peek at Knicks husband Jalen’s offseason in new photos How Mikal Bridges and Karl-Anthony Towns could benefit from Knicks’ new regime It was a clear sign Brown valued familiarity and relationships, Triano having worked under him for the prior three seasons in Sacramento. But after Weinar pulled his name out of the running, Brown finally landed his man. Jent graduated from Sparta High School in New Jersey and played briefly for the Knicks in 1996-97. He won a championship ring with the Rockets in 1994 and holds the odd distinction of having logged more games in the postseason (11) than regular season (six). But it’s on the sideline where Jent has made the most impact, as an assistant coach for 18 NBA seasons with the Cavs, Hornets, 76ers, Magic, Kings, Hawks and Lakers. He was even the interim head coach for Orlando in 2004-05, going 5-13. 3 Head Coach Chris Jent of the Charlotte Hornets looks on during the game against the Sacramento Kings during the 2025 NBA Summer League Championship Game on July 20, 2025. NBAE via Getty Images 3 Coach Chris Jent of the Charlotte Hornets talks to the team before the game against the Sacramento Kings during the 2025 NBA Summer League Championship game on July 20, 2025. NBAE via Getty Images Now, after Brown had tabbed Brendan O’Connor as his top defensive mind, Jent will handle the other end of the court. It will be Jent’s task to get clutch scoring guard Jalen Brunson and All-Star big man Karl-Anthony Towns to maximize their effectiveness playing together, after questions about their fit last season. Jent managing that will be a huge key to the Knicks breaking through and reaching an NBA Final. In addition to O’Connor, Jent will flesh out a Knick staff that includes assistants Jordan Brink, Rick Brunson, Mark Bryant, Maurice Cheeks and Darren Erman, all holdovers from the Tom Thibodeau regime. Filed under charlotte hornets mike brown new york knicks 8/8/25 Read Next Knicks' Christmas Day matchup is a true present from NBA Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Knicks Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Minnesota Timberwolves at New York Knicks Oct 09 2025 | Get Tickets Washington Wizards at New York Knicks Oct 13 2025 | Get Tickets Cleveland Cavaliers at New York Knicks Dec 25 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Chris Jent of the Hornets celebrates after winning the 2025 NBA Summer League Championship Game against the Kings on July 20, 2025 in Las Vegas. NBAE via Getty Images Head Coach Chris Jent of the Charlotte Hornets looks on during the game against the Sacramento Kings during the 2025 NBA Summer League Championship Game on July 20, 2025. NBAE via Getty Images Coach Chris Jent of the Charlotte Hornets talks to the team before the game against the Sacramento Kings during the 2025 NBA Summer League Championship game on July 20, 2025. NBAE via Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement