Bronx woman driving 77 mph in 25 mph zone indicted for killing cab driver after DNA found on airbag DA
Metro Bronx woman driving 77 mph in 25 mph zone indicted for killing cab driver after DNA found on airbag: DA By Shane Galvin Published Aug. 8, 2025, 8:17 p.m. ET A Bronx driver who allegedly killed a livery cab driver while speeding 77 mph in a 25 mph zone before fleeing the scene two years ago will now face justice — after her DNA was found on an airbag, the Bronx District Attorney announced Friday. Imani Williams, 36, was arraigned on Friday on second-degree manslaughter, leaving a scene of the accident, criminally negligent homicide and reckless driving charges, for the fatal June 5, 2022, hit-and-run, according to prosecutors. Williams was identified in the crime due to a DNA sample collected from the driver’s side airbag. REUTERS “This defendant was allegedly driving three times the speed limit when her SUV slammed into a livery cab, and she fled the scene without checking on the driver’s condition or waiting for first responders to arrive,” District Attorney Darcel Clark said in a statement Friday. The Bronx resident was allegedly using the bus lane to whiz past another vehicle and ran a red light before striking the driver’s side of the car of Robert Godwin, 45, a livery cab driver, prosecutors said. Williams allegedly pulled herself out of the vehicle and fled the scene on foot — without checking to see if Godwin was injured. Explore More Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Police ID deranged shooter who killed cop after unleashing barrage of bullets on CDC, Emory University campus Labubu craze could spell doom for the economy, expert warns Investigators were able to lift a DNA sample from the driver’s side airbag which was determined to be Williams in February 2025, the release stated. The livery cab was struck on the driver’s side resulting in critical injuries to Robert Godwin. NY Post Freelance/All Photos cop Godwin, of Queens, suffered critical injuries and was later pronounced dead at the hospital. Williams has been granted supervised release with electronic monitoring before returning to court on Oct. 29. Filed under cabs car crashes the bronx 8/8/25 Read Next NYPD to significantly boost cops at Dominican parade after... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 46,958 times. 46,958 This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women This story has been shared 45,111 times. 45,111 Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain This story has been shared 35,627 times. 35,627 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 33,894 times. 33,894 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 Listen Now Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.8K comments. 2.8K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Columnists Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? Charles Gasparino Trump backers finally reap rewards after years of debanking, black-listing See All Columnists Page Six Style Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Kylie Jenner sizzles in tiny bikini top ahead of her 28th birthday Shanna Moakler, 50, poses in skimpy swimsuit after losing weight on Mounjaro Now on Page Six Howard Stern reportedly ‘can’t stand’ fellow SiriusXM host Alex Cooper of ‘Call Her Daddy,’ avoids her in New York Justin Bieber has his hands full in nothing but tighty-whities and combat boots Brooklyn Beckham gives rare insight into Nicola Peltz marriage after ‘beautiful’ wedding vow renewal See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report