Gotham FC out to improve playoff position vs. Spirit in Rival Weekend
Soccer Gotham FC out to improve playoff position vs. Spirit in Rivalry Weekend By Jonathan Lehman Published Aug. 8, 2025, 8:10 p.m. ET Rivalry Weekend is here for the NWSL. Can up-and-down Gotham FC’s Saturday afternoon clash with the visiting third-place Washington Spirit live up to that new capital-letter billing? “The feeling of a rivalry is something that obviously takes time to grow, but certainly I do think we feel rivalry with them — because of their proximity to us and a number of other factors,” Gotham general manager Yael Averbuch West recently told The Post. “We are really pumped up for the game. 4 Crystal Dunn (left) plays the ball against Washington defender Casey Krueger during the second half of Gotham FC’s home loss to the Spirit on June 23, 2024. Noah K. Murray-NY Post “I think we’re still not forgetting how we exited the playoffs last year.” Ah, yes, that heartbreaker. Gotham’s hopes of repeating as NWSL champs were dashed in the nation’s capital in the semifinals last November when the Spirit equalized on a last-ditch Hal Hershfelt header in stoppage time and ultimately prevailed on penalty kicks. “There’s definitely some history and good matchups,” Gotham star midfielder Rose Lavelle said Friday. “I think it’s a blooming rivalry. Any time you get to play the Spirit, they’re a great team with a lot of talent, so it’s always going to be a tough game that you have to show up for.” Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer A big and boisterous crowd is expected for the noon kickoff (airing on ESPN) at Sports Illustrated Stadium, where the upper deck of seats will be open for a change. Here are three things to watch: 1. When is Gotham going to make a run? Gotham (5W-5L-4D) is plodding along in eighth place, barely on the right side of the playoff cut line, after last weekend’s uninspiring draw in Chicago. Now they embark on a stretch of three straight regular-season home games, a chance to climb to a more comfortable perch in the standings. 4 Gotham FC forward Jéssica Silva reacts after missing a shot at goal during Gotham FC’s home win over the Courage on April 13, 2025. Noah K. Murray-NY Post “Looking to bounce back from maybe what we felt like wasn’t our best performance last week,” Lavelle said, “and get some more momentum coming into the second half of the season.” 2. Can Esther pick up where she left off? Gotham forward Esther González, who leads the NWSL’s Golden Boot race with 10 goals (the team has just 19 total), missed last weekend’s match after featuring for Spain during their run to the Euros final. 4 Esther González shoots a shot during Gotham FC’s win over the Courage on April 13, 2025. Noah K. Murray / New York Post A finalist for this year’s Ballon d’Or award (given to the world’s best player), González will be available Saturday, though on a minutes restriction of some kind, according to head coach Juan Carlos Amorós. 3. What will Trinity Rodman do for her next trick? The USWNT phenom missed nearly four months of action rehabbing a chronic back injury (and joining boyfriend Ben Shelton at his international tennis stops). 4 Washington forward Trinity Rodman (2) celebrates after scoring a goal past goalkeeper Mackenzie Arnold (not pictured) during the second half of the Spirit’s win over the Thorns on Aug. 3, 2025. Amber Searls-Imagn Images When she returned to action last weekend for the Spirit as a substitute, she scored an emotional game-winner that left her in tears. Filed under gotham fc 8/8/25 Read Next Red Bulls pursuit of Tottenham star drags on as team negle... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Crystal Dunn (left) plays the ball against Washington defender Casey Krueger during the second half of Gotham FC's home loss to the Spirit on June 23, 2024. Noah K. Murray-NY Post Gotham FC forward Jéssica Silva reacts after missing a shot at goal during Gotham FC's home win over the Courage on April 13, 2025. Noah K. Murray-NY Post Esther González shoots a shot during Gotham FC's win over the Courage on April 13, 2025. Noah K. Murray / New York Post Washington forward Trinity Rodman (2) celebrates after scoring a goal past goalkeeper Mackenzie Arnold (not pictured) during the second half of the Spirit's win over the Thorns on Aug. 3, 2025. Amber Searls-Imagn Images You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement