Texans get crucial update on C.J. Gardner-Johnson after training camp ACL scare
NFL Texans get crucial update on C.J. Gardner-Johnson after training camp ACL scare By Camden Markel Published Aug. 8, 2025, 8:07 p.m. ET A lot can change in a day. Texans safety C.J. Gardner-Johnson was believed to have suffered a torn ACL during Thursday’s training camp practice, but according to ESPN, that is not the case. After further testing, Gardner-Johnson’s injury “isn’t as serious as it could have been,” as his ACL is intact. 3 C.J. Gardner-Johnson, pictured July 25, received some relieving news about his training camp injury. AP Perhaps the most shocking part of ESPN’s report is that “it’s not out of the question that he could be back as soon as the regular-season opener vs. the Rams.” The news comes as a relief to the Texans, as the team seemingly expected much worse. Gardner-Johnson was injured making a tackle on wide receiver John Metchie III — he pounded the ground in frustration and couldn’t put any weight on his leg after the injury. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer 3 C.J. Gardner-Johnson, pictured during training camp, is in his first season with the Texans. Troy Taormina-Imagn Images Texans head coach DeMeco Ryans’ mind certainly thought of the worst-case scenario in the moment, as he called the scene “heartbreaking” and said it was “tough to watch,” according to KPRC2. With the new assumption that Gardner-Johnson will be healthy in the near future, Houston can exhale. The 27-year-old is coming off a solid season for the Eagles in which he started 16 games in the regular season and all four postseason games en route to winning Super Bowl 2025 over the Chiefs. 3 C.J. Gardner Johnson celebrates the Eagles’ Super Bowl win Feb. 9. REUTERS Gardner-Johnson signed with Philadelphia ahead of last season on a three-year, $27 million contract coming off an injury-riddled season with the Lions. The safety found his way to the Texans via trade when they acquired him and a 2026 sixth-round pick from the Eagles in March for guard Kenyon Green and a 2025 fifth-rounder. Gardner-Johnson joins a Houston team that’s coming off back-to-back 10-7 seasons led by Ryans and young quarterback CJ Stroud. The Texans were bounced in the divisional round in both seasons, and they now hope Gardner-Johnson can be a defensive piece that could get them over the hump in the playoffs. Filed under houston texans training camp 8/8/25 Read Next Jaxson Dart set for preseason debut with Brian Daboll's qu... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard C.J. Gardner-Johnson, pictured July 25, received some relieving news about his training camp injury. AP C.J. Gardner-Johnson, pictured during training camp, is in his first season with the Texans. Troy Taormina-Imagn Images C.J. Gardner Johnson celebrates the Eagles' Super Bowl win Feb. 9. REUTERS You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement