Yankees’ Giancarlo Stanton prepping for first outfield assignment in nearly two years
MLB new york yankees Yankees’ Giancarlo Stanton prepping for first outfield assignment in nearly two years By Mark W. Sanchez Published Aug. 8, 2025, 7:54 p.m. ET On Old-Timers’ Day, the expectation is Giancarlo Stanton will unretire his glove. There is a “good chance,” Yankees manager Aaron Boone said, that the designated hitter will make his return to the outfield Saturday for the first time since Sept. 14, 2023. With Aaron Judge able to serve as designated hitter but not able to field — he is beginning to build up his right arm after a flexor strain — and with lefty Framber Valdez expected to be on the mound for the Astros, the Yankees are ready to at least somewhat risk Stanton’s legs to shoehorn his bat into the lineup. 5 Giancarlo Stanton goes back to catch a fly ball during warmups before the Yankees-Astros game on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Stanton has not played the outfield in nearly two years because his body has not held up. He has played more than 114 games in a season just once since 2019 largely because of lower body issues: knee sprains, hamstring strains, quad strains, calf strains. Last year, he was shielded from defensive work but strained his left hamstring running the bases. This year, he did not play until mid-June because of elbow tendinitis in both arms. If his elbow bothers him while throwing, he has not brought it up. “I don’t think I’ve ever heard Giancarlo complain,” outfield and third-base coach Luis Rojas said. Last year, Stanton returned from injury in time to become a monster in October, which is when the Yankees most rely upon Stanton’s bat and most want him ready to play. Explore More Giancarlo Stanton holds his own during first outfield chance in two years Luis Gil’s bounce-back outing gave Yankees the positive sign they needed Roger Clemens proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer “There’s always risk when you go play the game,” Boone said Friday before the Yankees opened their series with a 5-3 loss in 10 innings to the Astros in The Bronx. “We wouldn’t put him in a situation where we feel like there was big-time risk. That said, the game and all that, anything’s possible. “I do feel like, physically, he’s in a good place to go out and do it on a limited basis.” 5 Giancarlo Stanton catches a fly ball during warmups before the Yankees-Astros game on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Go beyond the box score with the Bombers Sign up for Inside the Yankees by Greg Joyce, exclusively on Sports+. Thank you Enter your email address Please provide a valid email address. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Enjoy this Post Sports+ exclusive newsletter! Check out more newsletters Stanton has been doing pregame work in the outfield for the past week-plus and logged his busiest day Friday, when he fielded ground balls, shagged fly balls, ranged back to the wall and worked on handling balls sent into the right field corner. He is not, and will not, be running max speed, each step intentional as has become habit for his best chance at staying healthy, but he has handled the pregame balls sent his way. He looks “progressively good,” said Rojas, who hit the balls toward Stanton. “He’s a veteran guy. You got to trust how he feels.” CHECK OUT THE LATEST MLB STANDINGS AND YANKEES STATS By all accounts, Stanton has been feeling good enough to give defense a try. He was out of the starting lineup for a third straight game Friday to squeeze in Judge’s bat. 5 Giancarlo Stanton takes part in fielding drills on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post 5 Giancarlo Stanton fielding ground balls in the outfield on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post In doing so, the Yankees were forced to sit their hottest hitter. Stanton entered play with nine home runs and a 1.039 OPS in his past 21 games. “He doesn’t want to be a liability for the team. He just wants to be out there and help the team win,” Rojas said. “He wants to be a player for us on the defensive side. So, he’s excited to show he can do that.” This experiment will not be a permanent one, Boone stating several times that the club wants the flexibility to put Stanton in a corner-outfield spot every once in a while. 5 Giancarlo Stanton takes to the outfield to work on ground ball and pop fly drills on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post It is not clear how long the Yankees will be unable to put Judge in the outfield. Judge shared right field with Stanton before Friday’s game, throwing lightly for a second time. Boone said Judge would throw from 90 feet again, and then the club would see how he feels as he builds up his workload in his right arm. Practicing alongside Judge, Stanton has added more reps and more drills each day recently before what may be his moment of truth Saturday. “I’ve been feeling better and better each day just because he’s wanted more work,” Rojas said. Filed under giancarlo stanton new york yankees 8/8/25 Read Next One state considering banning 'microbets' amid MLB gamblin... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Yankees Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Houston Astros at New York Yankees Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 11 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets New York Yankees at St. Louis Cardinals Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Giancarlo Stanton goes back to catch a fly ball during warmups before the Yankees-Astros game on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Giancarlo Stanton catches a fly ball during warmups before the Yankees-Astros game on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Giancarlo Stanton takes part in fielding drills on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Giancarlo Stanton fielding ground balls in the outfield on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Giancarlo Stanton takes to the outfield to work on ground ball and pop fly drills on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post You are viewing 1 of 5 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement