Ohio considering banning first-pitch bets amid Guardians gambling investigation
Betting Ohio considering banning first-pitch bets amid Guardians gambling investigation By Dylan Svoboda Published Aug. 8, 2025, 7:50 p.m. ET Cleveland Guardians relief pitcher Emmanuel Clase throws during the ninth inning in the second baseball game of a doubleheader against the Kansas City Royals, Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Kansas City, Mo. AP First-pitch bets could be on the chopping block as MLB investigates two Guardians pitchers. The state of Ohio is looking at banning “microbets,” which would include wagers on MLB’s first pitches, according to ESPN. Ohio Casino Control Commission (OCCC) executive director Matt Schuler told the outlet that his department, at Gov. Mike DeWine’s request, is looking into microbets before potentially removing some player props as legal wagers. Guardians pitcher Luis Ortiz throws a pitch during a road game against the Yankees earlier this season. Bill Kostroun/New York Post The news comes after Guardians pitchers Luis Ortiz and Emmanuel Clase were placed on leave by MLB due to a league gambling investigation. Ortiz is being investigated after a pair of his pitches received unusual gambling activity. Both pitches received heavy action on the first pitch of the inning to be a ball or hit batsman before Ortiz proceeded to throw the ball well out of the strike zone. Clase’s connection to the investigation is unclear. Explore More Bet365 bonus code NYPBET: Claim $150 bonus or $1K first bet safety net for Mets vs. Brewers on Saturday BetMGM bonus code POSTBET for $1,500 in bonus bets for Yankees vs. Astros on Saturday UFC Vegas 109 predictions: Roman Dolidze vs. Anthony Hernandez picks, odds, best bets The Guardians cleared out the lockers of both pitchers late last month. The team stated last week that “no additional players or club personnel are expected to be impacted” by the investigation. In July, DeWine called on the state gambling commission to ban some types of player-specific prop bets. “The harm to athletes and the integrity of the game is clear, and the benefits are not worth the harm,” DeWine said. “The prop betting experiment in this country has failed badly.” Closer Emmanuel Clase reacts after the host Guardians defeated the Orioles on July 22, 2025. AP DeWine also asked commissioners and players unions from the major American sports leagues to support the ban. During the MLB All-Star break, commissioner Rob Manfred seemed open to getting rid of microbets. “Certain types of bets strike me as unnecessary and particularly vulnerable, things where it’s one single act, doesn’t affect the outcome necessarily,” Manfred said. Filed under cleveland guardians mlb betting sports betting 8/8/25 Read Next How oddsmakers view Colts' QB battle after injury wrinkle Latest Sports Betting Fantasy football: New QB-coach combo could pay dividends in 2025 Two rookies who can make the difference down the stretch in your fantasy baseball league The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football How a change of scenery turned Andrew Vaughn into a fantasy baseball star Cubs vs. Cardinals predictions: MLB odds, picks, best bets Saturday More Sports Betting News Trending Now in Sports This story has been shared 13,126 times. 13,126 Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare This story has been shared 8,135 times. 8,135 NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win This story has been shared 5,850 times. 5,850 Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer This story has been shared 5,501 times. 5,501 Justin Fields era off to good start for Jets This story has been shared 5,002 times. 5,002 Giants rookie throws absolute dime for first NFL touchdown pass in thrilling debut Columnists Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be See All Columnists Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify