Giancarlo Stanton’s outfield trip latest example of Yankees doubling down
new york yankees Larry Brooks Giancarlo Stanton’s outfield trip latest example of Yankees doubling down By Larry Brooks Published Aug. 8, 2025, 7:40 p.m. ET Giancarlo Stanton fields ground balls in right field before the Yankees-Astros game on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Access the Yankees beat like never before Don’t miss Greg Joyce’s text messages from The Bronx and beyond — he’s giving Sports+ subscribers the inside buzz on the Yankees. Sign Up Now There was a brief chat with manager Aaron Boone in front of his locker before Giancarlo Stanton finished putting on his pinstriped baseball pants one leg at a time and strode out of the clubhouse carrying a glove in his left hand. Stanton has not used one for real in almost two years, since Sept. 14, 2023. The glove seemed like an unnecessary, if not utterly incongruent accessory, kind of like a steer wearing a Louis Vuitton handbag. But apparently not. Following a week to 10 days of doing remedial work in the outfield after Aaron Judge went down with a flexor strain in his right elbow, Stanton is penciled in to play right field Saturday afternoon when Houston starts left-hander Framber Valdez, per Boone, after sitting for three straight. Of course. Filed under aaron boone giancarlo stanton new york yankees sports columnists 8/8/25 Read Next Islanders know getting star prospect to NHL isn't 'a race'... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Yankees Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Houston Astros at New York Yankees Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 11 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets New York Yankees at St. Louis Cardinals Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Aaron Judge and Giancarlo Stanton in the outfield at Yankee Stadium. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Yankees manager Aaron Boone in the dugout in the eighth inning during a July 31 game. JASON SZENES/ NY POST Giancarlo Stanton catching a ball in right field before the Yankees-Astros game on Aug. 8, 2025. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post Brian Cashman talking to reporters in February. Charles Wenzelberg / New York Post You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement