How Trump’s Armenia-Azerbaijan deal gives US key ‘leverage’ over Russia
World News How Trump’s Armenia-Azerbaijan deal gives US key ‘leverage’ over Russia By Caitlin Doornbos Published Aug. 8, 2025, 7:16 p.m. ET WASHINGTON — A Trump-brokered peace agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan represents a major breakthrough after decades of fighting between the neighboring nations — and offers the US “leverage” over Russia, an expert tells The Post. The deal calls for the creation of a 20-mile transit corridor, modestly labeled the “Trump Route for International Peace and Prosperity,” that will allow Azerbaijanis direct access to their country’s westernmost region, explained Hudson Institute senior fellow Luke Coffey. “If you look at a map of Azerbaijan, it’s in two chunks — you have Azerbaijan proper and then there’s Nakhchivan, which is an enclave,” Coffey said. “Think of it like the United States and Alaska, but instead of having Canada in between, you have Armenia.” 6 From left: Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev, US President Donald Trump, and Armenia Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan display copies of the peace agreement. AP 6 President Donald Trump, center, shakes hands with Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, right, and Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev during a trilateral signing ceremony in the White House. AP Explore More European cities slap hefty fees on tourists — here's what it'll cost if you're caught wearing flip flops Influencer wife of drunk Virgin Atlantic passenger who threatened to rape flight attendant defends husband's vile outburst Porsche driver clocks 199MPH on Germany's infamous Autobahn 6 Map showing the Armenia and Azebaijan borders. Including Azebaijan’s Nakhchivan landlocked exclave. NY Post Design With Azerbaijan and Armenia at war since the late 1980s, Azerbaijanis have not been allowed to pass through Yerevan’s territory — forcing much longer trade trips to reach Nakhchivan. In 2020, Russia — which has relations with both nations — oversaw an agreement to open a transit route through this region, “not for [Azerbaijan] to control it, but to open it, like in the same way we can ship goods to Alaska through Canada,” Coffey said. “This never happened, though, because Russia as the power broker failed to implement it,” he explained. Armenia — once heavily supported by Moscow — became frustrated, and the bad feelings grew in 2023 when Russia failed to come to its defense during a push by Azerbaijan to retake the Nagorno-Karabakh region, which Armenia had occupied for more than 20 years. 6 The deal gives the US exclusive development rights along the new route, allowing Washington to fill the void left by Moscow, further distancing Russia from its former possessions in West Asia. AFP via Getty Images The deal announced by Trump Friday — which also gives the US exclusive development rights along the new route — would allow Washington to fill the void left by Moscow, further distancing Russia from its former possessions in West Asia as Vladimir Putin pursues expansionist goals in Ukraine. Putin has long lamented the fall of the Soviet regime, which he has called the “disintegration of historical Russia” and “the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the [20th] century.” 6 President Trump displays his copy of the trilateral agreement Friday at the White House. AP 6 Russia “is not going to be happy,” about the US’ new prominence in the Caucuses, Hudson Institute senior fellow Luke Coffey said. AP Should the US deal hold up, it would demonstrate Russia’s “diminishing sway within its so-called ‘near-abroad,’” said John Hardie, director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracy’s Russia program. “They’re being sidelined in a conflict that they used to play a key role in keeping frozen, and using it as a form of leverage over the two parties,” he added. While it’s unclear whether the Armenia-Azerbaijan deal will help end the Ukraine war, Russia “is not going to be happy,” about the US’ new prominence in the Caucuses, Coffey said. “I’m sure it’s being featured in the talks with [the US] and the Kremlin, and who knows what could be agreed behind closed doors?” he said. “Maybe as part of a larger settlement to get Russia to the table with Ukraine, the US will then say, ‘OK, a Russian company or Russia can have a role in this transit route. ”I wouldn’t put anything past this White House — and I don’t mean that in a derogatory sense — but they see this purely as transactional. For them, it’s just, ‘How do we get the best deal?’” Filed under armenia asia donald trump foreign policy moscow russia ukraine war vladimir putin 8/8/25 Read Next Inside Israel's plan to take over Gaza City and defeat Ham... Trending Now in World News This story has been shared 11,358 times. 11,358 European cities slap hefty fees on tourists -- here's what it'll cost if you're caught wearing flip flops This story has been shared 2,456 times. 2,456 Influencer wife of drunk Virgin Atlantic passenger who threatened to rape flight attendant defends husband's vile outburst This story has been shared 2,373 times. 2,373 Porsche driver clocks 199MPH on Germany's infamous Autobahn This story has been shared 1,704 times. 1,704 Manhattan-sized interstellar object could be alien probe here to 'destroy us': Harvard scientist Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report From left: Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev, US President Donald Trump, and Armenia Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan display copies of the peace agreement. AP President Donald Trump, center, shakes hands with Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, right, and Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev during a trilateral signing ceremony in the White House. AP Map showing the Armenia and Azebaijan borders. Including Azebaijan's Nakhchivan landlocked exclave. NY Post Design The deal gives the US exclusive development rights along the new route, allowing Washington to fill the void left by Moscow, further distancing Russia from its former possessions in West Asia. AFP via Getty Images President Trump displays his copy of the trilateral agreement Friday at the White House. AP Russia “is not going to be happy,” about the US’ new prominence in the Caucuses, Hudson Institute senior fellow Luke Coffey said. AP You are viewing 1 of 6 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement