Islanders know getting Cal Ritchie to NHL isn’t ‘a race’ — but training camp could change that plan
new york islanders Islanders know getting Cal Ritchie to NHL isn’t ‘a race’ — but training camp could change that plan By Ethan Sears Published Aug. 8, 2025, 7:06 p.m. ET Cal Ritchie is pictured during a June 30 practice. Heather Khalifa for the NY Post See Also inside the islanders The pluses and perils of the Islanders’ decision to lean into Matthew Schaefer’s stardom The Islanders should have the luxury of time with Cal Ritchie, and it appears they plan to use it. Ritchie, the 20-year-old from Brampton, Ontario, was the centerpiece of the Brock Nelson deal and, over the long term, projects as a top-six centerman for the Islanders. In the immediate, though, general manager Mathieu Darche doesn’t sound ready to rush Ritchie to the NHL. “Well, it’s a process. I want them to have an NHL career, not play games,” Darche said this week in an appearance on The Sheet with Jeff Marek. “It’s not a race, whoever plays his first game or his first 20 games. Having said that, play at training camp. Yes, we have a lot of forwards, and if Cal comes to training camp and outplays everyone, I’ll make room for him on the roster.” Filed under mathieu darche new york islanders 8/8/25 Read Next Justin Fields has every chance in world to break Same Old ... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Islanders Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Philadelphia Flyers at New York Islanders Sep 21 2025 | Get Tickets New York Islanders at New Jersey Devils Sep 23 2025 | Get Tickets New York Islanders at New York Rangers Sep 25 2025 | Get Tickets New Jersey Devils at New York Islanders Sep 26 2025 | Get Tickets New York Rangers at New York Islanders Sep 29 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Victor Eklund (l.) and Cal Ritchie (r.) are pictured during a June 30 practice. Heather Khalifa for the NY Post Cal Ritchie skates during a June 30 drill. Heather Khalifa for the NY Post Cal Ritchie addresses reporters June 30. Heather Khalifa for the NY Post You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement