Former All-Star, World Series champ Alex Wood retires after 12 MLB seasons
MLB Former All-Star, World Series champ Alex Wood retires after 12 MLB seasons By Camden Markel Published Aug. 8, 2025, 7:01 p.m. ET Trusty veteran starting pitcher Alex Wood announced his retirement Friday. The 34-year-old lefty played 12 seasons in the big leagues, made one All-Star appearance and won one World Series. Wood made his retirement official in a heartfelt Instagram post. 4 Alex Wood began his career with the Braves. Getty Images “For over half my life, every decision I’ve made has centered around how it would impact my baseball career,” Wood wrote. “I’ve given every ounce of myself in pursuit of my lifelong dream of becoming a big leaguer. Playing 12 years in the show, reaching 7 postseasons, winning a World Series, and earning an All-Star selection — I never could’ve imagined it would turn out this way.” After a collegiate career at Georgia, Wood stayed local after being drafted by the Braves in the second round in 2012. He then made his debut for Atlanta in 2013 at 22 years old. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer 4 Alex Wood spent five total seasons with the Dodgers. AP Wood posted a superb 3.10 ERA across 86 games with the Braves before being traded to Los Angeles, where he’d spend the next four seasons (2015-18) with the Dodgers. In 2017, he made 25 starts for Los Angeles, posted a career-best 2.72 ERA and got his only All-Star nod of his career. Wood spent 2019 with the Reds before returning to the Dodgers in 2020 and winning the World Series, pitching four innings in the Fall Classic and allowing no runs. 4 Alex Wood helped the Dodgers win the 2020 World Series. Getty Images He joined the Giants at 30 years old and spent three solid seasons there before finishing his career with the Athletics in 2024. “To the Braves, Dodgers, Reds, Giants and Athletics — and your incredible fans — THANK YOU,” Wood wrote. “Playing for five iconic franchises and becoming part of those communities is something my family and I will always cherish.” Wood also penned his emotional gratitude for his teammates, coaches, wife, parents, sons and his agency. 4 Alex Wood spent 12 years in MLB. Getty Images “Baseball was my first love. Outside of God and my family, nothing else has shaped me the way this game has,” he added. “Even writing this, I can’t help but smile thinking about how much I still love the game after all this time. “To everyone who helped make this dream a reality that I couldn’t begin to list — if you think this is about you — IT IS. I love you and thank you. Cheers to what’s next. See you at the park!” Filed under alex wood athletics atlanta braves cincinnati reds los angeles dodgers san francisco giants 8/8/25 Read Next The Yankees open series vs. Astros with Apple TV+ broadcas... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All MLB TRADE BIG BOARD MLB trade deadline 2025 big board: All the names on the move Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Yankees Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Houston Astros at New York Yankees Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 11 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets New York Yankees at St. Louis Cardinals Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Scoreboard Alex Wood began his career with the Braves. Getty Images Alex Wood spent five total seasons with the Dodgers. AP Alex Wood helped the Dodgers win the 2020 World Series. Getty Images Alex Wood spent 12 years in MLB. Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement