Don’t let Diddy escape serving hard time in prison
Opinion editorial Don’t let Diddy escape serving hard time in prison By Post Editorial Board Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:59 p.m. ET Sean "Diddy" Combs gestures in the press room during the MTV Video Music Awards at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, on September 12, 2023. AFP via Getty Images No way should the court grant Sean “Diddy” Combs’ request to do his hard time in home confinement on his private Miami island. Yes, he avoided guilty verdicts on the most serious charges of racketeering and sex trafficking, which could’ve landed him a lifetime behind bars, but his convictions are still serious. They include two counts of transportation to engage in prostitution — meaning he hired male escorts, flew them across the country, then forced his girlfriend, Cassie Ventura, and another unnamed woman to have sex with them. And yes, that’s the Cassie that a hotel security tape shows Diddy brutally attacking then dragging across the floor. House arrest at Combs’ palatial compound — worth a staggering $48.5 million — isn’t a punishment at all, it’s a vacation. The 14,800-square-foot mansion on Star Island, one of the priciest zip codes in America, features multiple pools, a spa and even cabana-style pool houses; it’s not Rikers but Ritz Carlton. Explore More Netanyahu taking control of Gaza will end the Israel-Hamas war for good Blame NY's progressive leaders for the vile on-camera killing of Angel Mendoza Why racial discrimination is so deeply institutionalized in US higher education Plus, it’s the scene of many of his drug-fueled “freak-offs”: The feds’ raid of the home last March found AR-15s, a cornucopia of drugs, boxes full of stripper heels, baskets full of lube and an array of sex toys. Saying “it’s impossible” for Combs “to show he poses no danger to any person,” Judge Arun Subramian has already denied his request for a $50 million bond to await sentencing at his Miami estate, leaving him in a Brooklyn detention center where he belongs. Sounds like Diddy is headed not to “jail at home” but to something a lot closer to the 51-to 63 months in prison that federal prosecutors want, which is at least a start on real justice. Filed under editorial manhattan federal court Sean 'Diddy' Combs sex trafficking star island 8/8/25 Read Next Trump can rein in health-care costs AND save lives — her... Columnists Naomi Schaefer Riley NY state courts are blocking Children's Services in domestic violence cases — and that needs to change Rich Lowry Trump's right about the census — but rushing one is worse Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? See All Columnists Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide