Blake Lively scores two wins in Justin Baldoni legal battle, as judge rules to keep deposition transcript under wrap
Entertainment Blake Lively scores two wins in Justin Baldoni legal battle, as judge rules to keep deposition transcript under wrap By Priscilla DeGregory Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:59 p.m. ET Blake Lively scored two victories Friday in her heated legal battle with “It Ends With Us” co-star Justin Baldoni, with a judge ruling to keep her deposition transcript under wraps — at least for now. Manhattan federal Judge Lewis Liman issued two blistering orders, one of which scolded Baldoni’s side for seemingly trying to “invite public speculation and scandal” when his lawyers filed a nearly 300-page temporarily sealed transcript of Lively’s deposition on a public court docket. Liman struck the deposition from the record, saying while it may be normal for judges to consider parts of depositions during litigation, “it is not routine, however, for parties to attach an entire confidential deposition transcript when citing only limited portions of that transcript … in order to put the other side and the court to the burden of justifying continued sealing.” 3 Blake Lively won two key victories in her ongoing legal battle with “It Ends With Us” co-star Justin Baldoni. YouTube/Perez Hilton The parts of, or the entire, deposition could still come out at later points in the case, including potentially at the trial, which is currently scheduled for March 2026. The “Gossip Girl” star’s lawyers Monday accused Baldoni of “creating a media circus” by leaking details of the deposition the day she was grilled by his lawyers in Manhattan last week. Explore More Blake Lively rips Perez Hilton for churning out more than 500 negative articles about Justin Baldoni feud Blake Lively accuses Justin Baldoni of leaking details of her deposition, including what she wore, to create ‘a media circus’ Perez Hilton to fight Blake Lively ‘invasive’ subpoena in Justin Baldoni battle And then by posting the temporarily sealed transcript on the case docket, forcing her to unnecessarily argue for it to remain sealed. Baldoni’s side — which includes the film’s production company Wayfarer Studios LLC — posted the transcript the day after the deposition to bolster their arguments that Baldoni and his lawyers weren’t in cahoots to carry out a smear campaign against her. But Liman’s ruling, said Baldoni’s letter only quotes “one fragment of one sentence from Lively’s deposition.” 3 Judge Lewis Liman ruled to keep Lively’s deposition transcript under wraps. Variety via Getty Images Liman agreed with Lively, saying: “The conclusion is inescapable that the Wayfarer Parties filed gratuitous amounts of irrelevant pages so that, if Lively moved for continued sealing of the irrelevant pages, the Wayfarer Parties could then use Lively’s response for their own public-relations purposes. The Court has not only the power but also the responsibility to step in.” The judge issued an unrelated ruling Friday addressing a series of letters to the court filed by celebrity blogger Perez Hilton — who is currently fighting a subpoena from Lively — ordering him to be more respectful and follow court rules of conduct or risk being held in contempt of court. Hilton filed six letters to the court this week, including one Wednesday in which he called Lively a “plantation-loving princess” and her lawyer “deplorable.” 3 The trial between the two co-stars from the 2024 film is expected to begin in March 2026. BACKGRID Liman barred any further use of “disrespectful” and “intemperate” language, “demeaning nicknames,” and “personal attacks” in court filings. Hilton exclusively told The Post Friday that he would “definitely” follow the judge’s order going forward and wrote a new letter in which he believes he threaded the needle of conveying his outrage while “expressing that in a respectful manner.” Hilton — whose real name is Mario Lavandeira, Jr. — was dragged into the case when Lively issued a subpoena for any work correspondence he may have exchanged with Baldoni’s side, as part of Lively’s argument that she’s been the target of a negative public relations campaign. Hilton is seeking to quash that subpoena, arguing the records her side is seeking are shielded from laws protecting journalists. Lively, 37, filed her bombshell lawsuit against Baldoni — who directed the flick — claiming he sexually harassed her, in part, by sharing details of his sex life and porn addiction with her. Then he eventually tried to tarnish her reputation in the press. Baldoni, 41 — an alum of show “Jane the Virgin” — filed a countersuit claiming Lively and her “Deadpool” actor husband Ryan Reynolds extorted and defamed him. Liman recently tossed out Baldoni’s suit. Baldoni’s lawyers didn’t immediately return a request for comment Friday afternoon. Filed under blake lively celebrity lawsuits justin baldoni lawsuits manhattan federal court perez hilton rulings 8/8/25 Read Next Beach Boys legend Brian Wilson laid to rest 2 months after... Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 10 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 19 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 11 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Listen now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Blake Lively won two key victories in her ongoing legal battle with "It Ends With Us" co-star Justin Baldoni. YouTube/Perez Hilton Judge Lewis Liman ruled to keep Lively's deposition transcript under wraps. Variety via Getty Images The trial between the two co-stars from the 2024 film is expected to begin in March 2026. BACKGRID You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement