Beach Boys legend Brian Wilson laid to rest 2 months after death at 82
Music Beach Boys legend Brian Wilson laid to rest 2 months after death at 82 By Connor Surmonte Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:45 p.m. ET Brian Wilson was laid to rest nearly two months after his death at 82. The late Beach Boys legend’s daughter, Carnie, 57, took to Instagram Wednesday, Aug. 6, to share the news. “Today we laid my Daddy to rest,” Carnie began alongside a picture of a beautiful bouquet. “It was incredibly difficult to see that happen, but at the same time it gave more closure and more of a feeling of restful peace.” 10 Brian Wilson and his daughter, Carnie Wilson, at the Fonda Theater in Los Angeles, California, on March 30, 2015. Getty Images 10 Carnie Wilson shared a photo of this bouquet from her late father’s funeral on Wednesday, Aug. 6. Carnie Wilson/Instagram “The last eight weeks have been extremely challenging and like nothing I’ve ever experienced,” the Wilson Phillips singer added. “I love and miss him so much and I wish he could come back.” Explore More Jamie Lee Curtis gives blunt response to Pamela Anderson and Liam Neeson's romance Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain How Reba McEntire supported ex-stepson Brandon Blackstock in final months before his death Carnie added that her late father has been sending her “signs” ever since his passing in June, including “a couple of monarch butterflies that just would not leave the site.” “There’s so many signs that he gives me every day and I know that he’s around …he can hear me and he can see me,” Wilson’s daughter wrote. “He makes that apparent. I’m so grateful for this.” 10 Brian Wilson poses for a portrait in Los Angeles, California, in early 1965. Michael Ochs Archives 10 Brian Wilson at the Vibrato Jazz Club in Los Angeles, California, on Oct. 12, 2015. Getty Images However, the “Hold On” singer admitted that she is still struggling to deal with her beloved father’s death. “I’m trying to deal with my emotions – they’re so up and down. I know that he would want everybody to feel happy and not sad. He didn’t like it when I cried,” she shared. Carnie also revealed that she recently spoke with Gunnar Nelson, whose famous father, Ricky Nelson, passed away in 1985, and he provided her with a “really special” way to remember her dad. 10 Carnie Wilson, Brian Wilson, Melinda Wilson and Wendy Wilson smile for a photo together years before the “God Only Knows” songwriter’s passing. WireImage 10 Wendy Wilson, Brian Wilson, Carnie Wilson and Chynna Phillips shortly before an event at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, California. FilmMagic “I was talking with my dear friend Gunnar Nelson today who lost his Pop Ricky Nelson years ago and he reminded me that the world will have his music to sing to and remember him every single solitary day until we are all gone,” she added. Wilson’s daughter concluded her emotional post by thanking her late father for his “beautiful contribution” to the world, as well as the countless fans who have honored his memory. “So I just wanna say thank you… thank you Daddy for your beautiful contribution to so much happiness and real raw emotions that you have brought to people,” she wrote. “Thank you to all the beautiful loving and supportive fans out there for honoring him. We share this together. God knows what we’d be without him,” Carnie ended her touching message. 10 Carnie Wilson performing at the Canyon in Agoura Hills, California, on July 3, 2025. Getty Images 10 Carnie Wilson shared this photo of herself, her beloved father and her sister Wendy on Instagram after Wilson’s passing. carnie68/Instagram Wilson passed away on June 11 following a battle with dementia. His family announced the shocking news in a statement on Instagram. “We are heartbroken to announce that our beloved father Brian Wilson has passed away,” they began. “We are at a loss for words right now.” “Please respect our privacy at this time as our family is grieving,” the “Love and Mercy” singer’s family added. “We realize that we are sharing our grief with the world.” 10 Brian Wilson, Mike Love, Dennis Wilson, Carl Wilson and David Marks of The Beach Boys pose for a portrait with a surfboard in Los Angeles, California, in August 1962. Michael Ochs Archives 10 Al Jardine, David Marks, Frank Marshall, Brian Wilson, Blondie Chaplin, Mike Love and Bruce Johnston at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Hollywood, California, on May 21, 2024. Getty Images for Disney Two weeks later, Wilson’s death certificate revealed that the Beach Boys icon passed away from “respiratory arrest.” Sepsis and cystitis were also listed. Wilson’s former bandmates, Mike Love, 84, and Al Jardine, 82, paid tribute to the “God Only Knows” songwriter in a moving statement. “The world mourns a genius today, and we grieve for the loss of our cousin, our friend, and our partner in a great musical adventure,” they wrote. “Brian Wilson wasn’t just the heart of The Beach Boys—he was the soul of our sound.” “We are heartbroken by his passing. We will continue to cherish the timeless music we made together and the joy he brought to millions over the decades. And while we will miss him deeply, his legacy will live on through his songs and in our memories,” his bandmates added. Filed under beach boys brian wilson carnie wilson celebrity deaths musicians 8/8/25 Read Next Reba McEntire's connection to Brandon Blackstock, Kelly Cl... Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 10 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 19 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 11 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Listen now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Brian Wilson and his daughter, Carnie Wilson, at the Fonda Theater in Los Angeles, California, on March 30, 2015. Getty Images Carnie Wilson shared a photo of this bouquet from her late father's funeral on Wednesday, Aug. 6. Carnie Wilson/Instagram Brian Wilson poses for a portrait in Los Angeles, California, in early 1965. Michael Ochs Archives Brian Wilson at the Vibrato Jazz Club in Los Angeles, California, on Oct. 12, 2015. Getty Images Carnie Wilson, Brian Wilson, Melinda Wilson and Wendy Wilson smile for a photo together years before the "God Only Knows" songwriter's passing. WireImage Wendy Wilson, Brian Wilson, Carnie Wilson and Chynna Phillips shortly before an event at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, California. FilmMagic Carnie Wilson performing at the Canyon in Agoura Hills, California, on July 3, 2025. Getty Images Carnie Wilson shared this photo of herself, her beloved father and her sister Wendy on Instagram after Wilson's passing. carnie68/Instagram Brian Wilson, Mike Love, Dennis Wilson, Carl Wilson and David Marks of The Beach Boys pose for a portrait with a surfboard in Los Angeles, California, in August 1962. Michael Ochs Archives Al Jardine, David Marks, Frank Marshall, Brian Wilson, Blondie Chaplin, Mike Love and Bruce Johnston at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Hollywood, California, on May 21, 2024. Getty Images for Disney You are viewing 1 of 10 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement