AWOL Texas Dems won’t get paid till they show up state House speaker
Politics AWOL Texas Dems won’t get paid till they show up: state House speaker By Victor Nava Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:44 p.m. ET About 50 Texas Democrats who fled the state to delay a redistricting vote won’t get paid until they show up at the capital, the Republican speaker of the state’s House of Representatives said Friday. House Speaker Dustin Burrow’s threat came after the Texas House, for the third time this week, failed to establish the quorum necessary to continue a special legislative redistricting session – thanks to the 55 Democrats who are still AWOL. 3 The House was still five members short of a quorum Friday. Getty Images “Comptroller Kelly Hancock and I have enacted a new policy stating that any member absent for the purpose of breaking quorum will no longer have their paycheck or per diem deposited electronically,” Burrows announced on the floor of the chamber. “While the Constitution forbids us from withholding pay, it does not dictate how we issue the pay,” he said. “Those checks must now be picked up in person on Capitol grounds, effective immediately.” Burrows further ordered 30% cuts to the office budgets of absent Democrats and required them to show up in person to receive reimbursements or send out newsletters. Explore More Dem strategist says party lacks ‘moral authority’ on Texas redistricting fight Texas creep wearing only a diaper yells ‘goo goo ga ga’ at little girls, asks them to ‘change’ him: report Gerrymandering is driving US politics mad — Congress, step in The missing Democrats, some of whom have popped up in New York, Illinois and California, also face a $500-per-day fine for every unexcused absence from the session. Meanwhile, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton filed two lawsuits Friday aimed at cutting off funding that the absentee Democrats may be receiving and removing some of the most outspoken missing members from the House. Paxton asked the Supreme Court of Texas to declare that 13 House seats – belonging to members who “made incriminating public statements regarding their refusal to return” – vacated over the “unlawful absences.” “The rogue Democrat legislators who fled the state have abandoned their duties, leaving their seats vacant,” Paxton said in a statement. “These cowards deliberately sabotaged the constitutional process and violated the oath they swore to uphold. “Their out-of-state rebellion cannot go unchecked, and the business of Texas must go on.” 3 The missing Democrats oppose a GOP-led push to redraw congressional maps in the state. Getty Images 3 The governor has threatened the absent members with arrest. REUTERS Paxton’s second lawsuit targets Powered by People, a lefty political action committee founded by former Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-Texas) that has reportedly covered airfare, lodging and other logistical expenses the absent state reps have incurred. The lawsuit, filed in the District Court of Tarrant County, seeks to block O’Rouke’s group from continuing to raise or distribute funds “for the purpose of funding the runaway Democrat House members.? “Democrat runaways are likely accepting Beto Bribes to underwrite their jet-setting sideshow in far-flung places and misleadingly raising political funds to pay for personal expenses,” Paxton said. “This out-of-state, cowardly cabal is abandoning their constitutional duties. “I will not allow failed political has-beens to buy off Texas elected officials. I’ll see you in court, Beto.” Tarrant County District Judge Megan Fahey granted Paxton’s request for a temporary injunction just hours after the lawsuit was filed. Fahey’s order bars O’Rourke and Powered by People from fundraising for the Democrats or spending money to cover their expenses. “They want to make examples out of those who fight so that others won’t,” O’Rourke wrote on X after Fahey’s ruling. “Paxton is trying to shut down Powered by People, one of the largest voter registration organizations in the country, because our volunteers fight for voting rights and free elections… the kind of work that threatens the hold that Paxton, Trump and Abbott have on power in Texas,” he added. O’Rouke also announced that he’s suing Paxton in an attempt to block the attorney general’s probe into his PAC. “We just sued Ken Paxton in state court. Taking the fight directly to him,” the former congressman and Democratic presidential primary candidate wrote. The House’s 30-day special legislative session ends Aug. 19. The House was five members short of a quorum Friday. Republican Gov. Greg Abbott has vowed to relentlessly pursue the redistricting push, which could add five GOP seats to the US House of Representatives — even if the missing Democrats hold out for the remainder of the special sessions. “I will be calling special session after special session, and we are going to get these maps passed,” Abbott said in an interview with Fox News. The governor has already issued arrest warrants for the missing Democrats and has ordered state law enforcement to track them down and force them back to the capital. The FBI is reportedly assisting in the effort to find the Democrats that fled out-of-state, according to Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas). Filed under Beto O'Rourke democratic party democrats gerrymandering greg abbott texas 8/8/25 Read Next Trump admin threatens to take over taxpayer-funded Harvard... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All The House was still five members short of a quorum Friday. Getty Images The missing Democrats oppose a GOP-led push to redraw congressional maps in the state. Getty Images The governor has threatened the absent members with arrest. REUTERS You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement