Hamas’ harrowing hostage video Letters to the Editor — Aug. 9, 2025
Opinion letters to the editor Hamas’ harrowing hostage video: Letters to the Editor — Aug. 9, 2025 By Post readers Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:36 p.m. ET Protesters hold photos of hostages held in the Gaza Strip during a protest calling for a hostages deal on August 7, 2025 in Tel Aviv, Israel. Getty Images The Issue: A video of emaciated Israeli hostage Evyatar David digging his grave. The horrific photo published in the New York Post — showing an emaciated Israeli hostage — bears a chilling resemblance to images of Holocaust survivors (“Hamas hostage digs own grave,” Aug. 3). It is a stark reminder that the cruelty inflicted by Hamas is not far removed from the barbarism of the Nazis. The fact that hostages are being starved, denied medical care and used for propaganda, while their captors appear well-fed, is a moral outrage. Yet much of the liberal press, several Democratic lawmakers and numerous international actors appear more sympathetic to the perpetrators than to the 1,200 innocent victims of Oct. 7 and the remaining hostages who continue to suffer. Seymour Srulowitz Explore More Netanyahu taking control of Gaza will end the Israel-Hamas war for good Blame NY's progressive leaders for the vile on-camera killing of Angel Mendoza Why racial discrimination is so deeply institutionalized in US higher education Englewood, NJ According to news coverage, the life of one Jewish hostage, Evyatar David, is valued a thousand times more than innocent Palestinians dying of hunger and disease. The United States, especially President Trump, always blindly supports Israel. Meanwhile, any support for Palestinians is squashed and quickly judged as antisemitic. Anthony Bianco Manhasset It is no coincidence that the photo of a Jew being starved and forced to dig his own grave appeared in The Post on the saddest day of the Hebrew calendar — Tisha B’Av. Those who perpetrated the horrors of the Holocaust have disappeared, and so will Hamas. The world now has many more righteous people who abhor evil. Among them are the editorialists and reporters of the New York Post, who are not afraid to report evil and cruelty as it occurs, which will help defeat them and make the world a better place. Mel Young Lawrence This is a sad reminder of those horrific photos of Jews digging mass graves before being murdered by Nazi soldiers. It’s sad that some deny it, few remember it and fewer have learned from it. Jerry Chiappetta Monticello The harrowing image of Israeli hostage Evyatar David, 24, looking like a Holocaust victim is one the world must see. It is a reminder to those who have forgotten about the sheer evil that Hamas represents. It is also a reminder of our sacred obligation to bring the remaining hostages home immediately. Stephen Silver San Francisco, Calif. Keep up with today’s most important news Stay up on the very latest with Evening Update. Thanks for signing up! Enter your email address Please provide a valid email address. By clicking above you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Never miss a story. Check out more newsletters The Issue: John Lott Jr.’s Post column criticizing economists opposing President Trump’s tariffs. Tariff opponents really just hate President Trump and like cheap goods (“Tariff ‘Experts’ Failed,” John Lott, PostOpinion, Aug. 7). But we all know these cheap goods are produced because of child and slave labor. Any member of organized labor that stands for workers’ rights for all members of the labor pool should be the biggest supporter of tariffs. Tariffs force nations to compete with US labor on an even playing field and remove incentives for exploitative foreign labor practices. Nick McNulty Windham, NH John Lott’s attempt to shield Trump’s tariffs from economists’ criticisms misses the mark. Economists oppose these tariffs because they are protectionist. These levies are meant to restructure the US economy and eliminate trade deficits by dramatically reducing imports. It is this protectionist effort that we oppose, and predict will inflict economic harm on Americans. Only by ignoring these consequences is Lott able to paint economists as clueless ideologues. Donald Boudreaux Fairfax, Va. Want to weigh in on today’s stories? Send your thoughts (along with your full name and city of residence) to letters@nypost.com. Letters are subject to editing for clarity, length, accuracy, and style. Filed under donald trump hamas hostages Israel-Hamas war letters to the editor tariffs 8/8/25 Read Next Team Trump mustn't let slippery Putin squirm out of a real... Columnists Naomi Schaefer Riley NY state courts are blocking Children's Services in domestic violence cases — and that needs to change Rich Lowry Trump's right about the census — but rushing one is worse Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? See All Columnists Editorials Why racial discrimination is so deeply institutionalized in US higher education Don't let Diddy escape serving hard time in prison Team Trump mustn't let slippery Putin squirm out of a real cease-fire Blame NY's progressive leaders for the vile on-camera killing of Angel Mendoza Trending Now What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 exclusive The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report