Team Trump mustn’t let slippery Putin squirm out of a real cease-fire
Opinion editorial Team Trump mustn’t let slippery Putin squirm out of a real cease-fire By Post Editorial Board Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:36 p.m. ET Russian President Vladimir Putin receives United Arab Emirates President Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, on August 7, 2025. APAImages/Shutterstock As President Donald Trump’s deadline to start imposing secondary sanctions on Russia expired Friday, Vladimir Putin was still looking to con his way out of a true ceasefire on his war on Ukraine. Trump confirmed the two plan a face-to-face meeting Friday in Alaska that will delay any sanctions kick-in, even though the president has found his recent conversations with Putin to be pleasant enough — but pointless: That’s why he moved up the deadline in the first place. Oh and Vlad is reportedly floating the idea of “an air truce,” though he hasn’t even publicly copped to the idea, which anyway would only put a halt to drone and missile attacks, assaults Moscow could easily restart at will, after using the pause to stock up in order to deliver truly crushing blows. Sorry: Trump has demanded a full-fledged cease-fire, with serious peace talks to follow; half measures won’t do, let along rumors of them. While Ukraine civilians would surely appreciate a break in being bombed, this fig leaf falls far too short: The Kremlin must stop all combat to get Trump to hold off on slamming buyers of Russian goods with punishing tariffs. Ukraine’s Volodymyr Zelensky rightly wants an end to this war, but “an honest end” — i.e., one that leaves no open door for Russia to reinvade Ukraine and finish the job. Explore More Netanyahu taking control of Gaza will end the Israel-Hamas war for good Blame NY's progressive leaders for the vile on-camera killing of Angel Mendoza Why racial discrimination is so deeply institutionalized in US higher education Putin, on the other hand, wants a phony “peace” that grants him gains he can’t get by fighting on now (such as full control of Luhansk, Donetsk and the rest of Ukraine’s east) and lets him come back for more whenever he likes. Vlad will keep squirming his way out of agreeing to anything less, unless and until he has real reason to give. It’s time to bring the full sanctions hammer down hard. Filed under donald trump editorial russia ukraine ukraine war vladimir putin Volodymyr Zelensky 8/8/25 Read Next Blame NY's progressive leaders for the vile on-camera kill... Columnists Naomi Schaefer Riley NY state courts are blocking Children's Services in domestic violence cases — and that needs to change Rich Lowry Trump's right about the census — but rushing one is worse Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? See All Columnists Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide