Justin Fields has every chance in the world to break the Same Old Jets QB narrative
new york jets Steve Serby Justin Fields has every chance in the world to break the Same Old Jets QB narrative By Steve Serby Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:35 p.m. ET Justin Fields gets a chance to make his first impression for the Jets during their preseason game Saturday. Robert Sabo for NY Post Take flight with the Jets Text with Brian Costello all season as he brings Sports+ subscribers the latest Jets intel from on the field and off. SIGN UP NOW Here is the deal for Justin Fields: Here comes your first chance, in the preseason opener on Saturday night at Lambeau Field, to start getting the Jets fan base to believe in you as much as Aaron Glenn insists he does. Glenn has gone out of his way to publicly support his first Jets quarterback and sing his praises, wisely refusing to make a mountain out of a molehill on training camp days when Fields can run but he can’t hide as an accurate pocket passer who will be counted on to win games with his arm once the real games begin. Oh, he can run like the wind all right, but there isn’t a defensive coordinator who isn’t aware of that. So Fields has work to do to justify his new head coach’s faith in him as a dual-threat threat. Filed under aaron glenn justin fields new york jets sports columnists 8/8/25 Read Next Liberty' new assistant talks coaching journey, NBA influen... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Vivid Sports Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Justin Fields attempts a throw during the Jets' training camp practice Aug. 4. Bill Kostroun for the NY Post Justin Fields hands the ball off to Breece Hall during the Jets' training camp practice July 26. Bill Kostroun for the NY Post Aaron Glenn is pictured at the Jets' training camp practice Aug. 7. Robert Sabo for the NY Post Justin Fields makes a throw during the Jets' training camp practice on Aug. 5. Bill Kostroun for the NY Post Justin Fields addresses reporters during an Aug. 5 press conference. Bill Kostroun for the NY Post You are viewing 1 of 5 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement