Why short OnlyFans creators are stomping all over taller rivals — with one 4-ft star earning more than $100K per month
Sex & Relationships Why short OnlyFans creators are stomping their taller rivals — with one 4-foot star earning over $100K/mo By Marissa Matozzo Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:35 p.m. ET On OnlyFans, size can make a big difference -- just not the kind you're imagining. Just ask Erika Calabrese. Jam Press/@airikacal_ Size really does matter — but not how you think. When it comes to raking in cash on OnlyFans, new data from Supercreator reveals that shorter women are stomping all over their taller rivals — earning up to 34% more subscribers, with fans who spend 30–45% more per interaction and stick around nearly twice as long. And nobody knows that better than 4-foot firecracker Erika Calabrese. 3 Shorter creators like Erika Calabrese are out-earning their taller competition — pulling in up to 34% more subscribers, with fans spending more per interaction and sticking around almost twice as long. Jam Press/@airikacal_ The 25-year-old Tampa, Florida native — who boasts 809,000 Instagram followers — says her petite stature has been a major factor in her six-figure-a-month success. “I had two options: either use my height to my advantage and make something of it or give in to what society has stereotyped little people to be, which is just a punching bag for comedic relief,” Calabrese told Jam Press. Explore More This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women OnlyFans star with two vaginas reveals her stunning 2025 earnings — and biggest tipper American tourists apparently have this puzzling tendency when traveling abroad, Europeans say — ‘Absolutely insane’ 3 They’re also scoring VIP status in the DMs — with quicker responses and sweeter offers — all thanks to the power of niche appeal. Jam Press/@airikacal_ Nobody’s laughing at her now — even as the site becomes more over-saturated, according to Calabrese, she’s able to “consistently” reel in “well over six figures a month.” The pint-sized powerhouse says the fan requests are just as crazy as the paychecks. “One of the more interesting things about doing OnlyFans is the people that are in my DMs,” she said. “I get wild messages from people. Most of it is just people trying to take me on dates or fly me to their country.” 3 She said her height draws both criticism and curiosity — with some dismissing her success as solely due to her stature, and others flooding her DMs with everything from date invites to trips abroad. Jam Press/@airikacal_ She noted that some of them “are married celebrities with children, and some are college guys who want me to go to their frat parties.” See Also There’s a specific reason why short men try to ‘appear more powerful’: study confirms Others are “old men who want to ‘experience a little person,'” but ultimately, many are “just men who want to check me off their bucket list.” Calabrese signed up for the site five years ago, swapping her $30,000-a-year retail job at a furniture store for a salary she can now pull in within a week. But she admits the fame comes with a price. “I face stigma within the industry because of my stature. People knowing that my conversion is better because of my height makes them think that they can have a negative opinion of me,” she said. “They’ll say ‘She’s only making that much because she’s little’ – which is true, but that’s nothing to be ashamed of.” And while she’s ‘honored’ to know that she’s inspired others like her to give the site a try, it’s bittersweet, knowing “they might endure the same things I have to go through,” she explained. Calabrese acknowledged that while it’s easy to start an account, go viral and make big money, the job comes with challenges — especially for someone already navigating the daily struggles of being part of a minority group. Yuval, CEO of Supercreator, which lends AI-powered assists to OnlyFans stars, says Erika’s story is part of a bigger shift on the platform. “The data reveals a fascinating truth,” Yuval said. “Smaller creators — not necessarily by follower size — are converting better. Follower count has become irrelevant – what matters now is authentic differentiation and flawless execution.” “The top 1% aren’t necessarily the most conventionally attractive — they’re the ones who’ve mastered marketing and sales.” Filed under fetishes onlyfans porn porn stars 8/8/25 Read Next Bride mocked by Internet after she had to ‘chase [groom]... Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 10 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 19 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 11 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Shorter creators like Erika Calabrese are out-earning their taller competition — pulling in up to 34% more subscribers, with fans spending more per interaction and sticking around almost twice as long. Jam Press/@airikacal_ They’re also scoring VIP status in the DMs — with quicker responses and sweeter offers — all thanks to the power of niche appeal. Jam Press/@airikacal_ She said her height draws both criticism and curiosity — with some dismissing her success as solely due to her stature, and others flooding her DMs with everything from date invites to trips abroad. Jam Press/@airikacal_ You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement