Knicks-Cavaliers Christmas Day matchup is a true NBA present
NBA new york knicks Knicks-Cavaliers Christmas Day matchup is a true NBA present By Brian Lewis Published Aug. 8, 2025, 6:19 p.m. ET There are few sure things in life, and the Knicks playing on Christmas is one of them. But this time, the schedule makers hit a home run. The Knicks will host the Cavaliers in a Dec. 25 showdown at the Garden on ABC and ESPN. The news was first reported by ESPN and confirmed by The Post. The matchup is a savory one, with the Knicks and Cavaliers widely expected to vie for a berth in the NBA Finals. This could be a holiday preview. With Achilles injuries having decimated Indiana, Boston and Milwaukee, the Knicks (who lost to the Pacers in the Eastern Conference finals) and Cleveland (who were an East-leading 64-18 in 2024-25) are the betting favorites to benefit. 3 Jalen Brunson of the New York Knicks puts up a shot over Jarrett Allen of the Cleveland Cavaliers. Jason Szenes / New York Post The Knicks-Cavaliers game will headline a hoops quintuple-header. Victor Wembanyama and the Spurs will play at the reigning champion Thunder, then Kevin Durant and the Rockets will play at LeBron James and the Lakers. Explore More Knicks finalizing deal to bring in Chris Jent as associate head coach as Mike Brown’s staff takes shape Ali Brunson giving peek at Knicks husband Jalen’s offseason in new photos How Mikal Bridges and Karl-Anthony Towns could benefit from Knicks’ new regime 3 New York Knicks guard Cameron Payne (1) drives around Cleveland Cavaliers forward Georges Niang (20) during the second half at Madison Square Garden on Monday, Oct. 28, 2024, in New York, NY. Corey Sipkin for the NY POST 3 Mikal Bridges of the New York Knicks goes up for a shot. Jason Szenes / New York Post Hyped rookie Cooper Flagg and the Mavericks will play at Stephen Curry and the Warriors, with the finale being Anthony Edwards’ Timberwolves playing at altitude against Nikola Jokic’s Nuggets. The Knicks have played on Christmas Day more than any other NBA team, with this set to be their 58th outing. So far they are 25-32, after beating the Spurs 117-114 this past season at the Garden. Filed under christmas cleveland cavaliers madison square garden new york knicks 8/8/25 Read Next LeBron and Savannah vacation in St. Tropez with Kyle Kuzma... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Knicks Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Minnesota Timberwolves at New York Knicks Oct 09 2025 | Get Tickets Washington Wizards at New York Knicks Oct 13 2025 | Get Tickets Cleveland Cavaliers at New York Knicks Dec 25 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Jalen Brunson of the New York Knicks puts up a shot over Jarrett Allen of the Cleveland Cavaliers. Jason Szenes / New York Post New York Knicks guard Cameron Payne (1) drives around Cleveland Cavaliers forward Georges Niang (20) during the second half at Madison Square Garden on Monday, Oct. 28, 2024, in New York, NY. Corey Sipkin for the NY POST Mikal Bridges of the New York Knicks goes up for a shot. Jason Szenes / New York Post You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement