LSU coach Brian Kelly sets record straight on Garrett Nussmeier’s injury amid online rumors
College Football LSU coach Brian Kelly sets record straight on Garrett Nussmeier’s injury amid online rumors By Camden Markel Published Aug. 8, 2025, 5:55 p.m. ET False alarm. LSU quarterback Garrett Nussmeier was rumored online to have suffered a serious knee injury at a closed practice that was going to put his season in jeopardy — but it was all a sham. “Just for the record, [Nussmeier] had tendinitis, patella tendinitis,” Tigers head coach Brian Kelly told reporters Friday. “He does not have a torn ACL.” Brian Kelly addressed the Garrett Nussmeier rumors after practice. Here are the full comments@1045espn @LASportsDotNet pic.twitter.com/qh50dtLncK — Matt Moscona (@MattMoscona) August 8, 2025 The rumors were so outlandish that Kelly couldn’t help but joke about it all. “We have not amputated his leg,” he added. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer Garrett Nussmeier is entering his second season as LSU’s starting quarterback. AP The internet claims weren’t entirely untrue, as Nussmeier is nursing an injury in his knee, but it is nowhere near the catastrophe that many were led to believe. “On the scale of 1 to 10, this is like a 1.5, on the scale of 1 to 10,” Kelly said. “And that’s just being honest with you, so we get the right information out there. … It’s like guys dealing with tendinitis virtually every day, in life. Take two aspirins and I’ll call you in the morning, right? This is more precautionary. “He was out there today throwing. Tomorrow, he’ll be back out, most likely in a practice situation, so I thought we’d calm everybody down.” Brian Kelly is in his fifth season as LSU’s head coach. Jordan Godfree-Imagn Images Nussmeier is coming off his first full season as LSU’s starter in a pass-heavy offense in which he led the SEC in completions and attempts. He threw for 4,052 yards, 29 touchdowns and 12 interceptions to help lead the Tigers to a 9-4 record. While Nussmeier and the team avoided a full-blown nightmare, the tendinitis could pose an issue down the line and will be worth monitoring this season. “When you have something that is a pre-existing condition, you can piss it off real easy and that’s kind of what happened,” Kelly said. “It’s not torn. There’s no fraying. There’s none of that. This is pre-existing. And he probably just planted the wrong way. There’s nothing really to see on film with it. But it’s just pissed it off. Aggravated it would be the better way to put it for me.” Filed under brian kelly lsu tigers 8/8/25 Read Next 2025 Nebraska Cornhuskers odds, predictions: Claim $150 bo... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard