Embattled Intel CEO calls out ‘misinformation’ after Trump demands he step down over alleged ties to Chinese military
Business Embattled Intel CEO calls out ‘misinformation’ after Trump demands he step down over alleged ties to Chinese military By Taylor Herzlich Published Aug. 8, 2025, 5:32 p.m. ET Embattled Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan pushed back on “misinformation” over his alleged financial ties to China after President Trump called on him to resign over a potential conflict of interest. “I want to be absolutely clear: Over 40+ years in the industry, I’ve built relationships around the world and across our diverse ecosystem – and I have always operated within the highest legal and ethical standards,” Tan wrote in the letter to Intel staffers on Thursday. He went on to say that the company — which last year was awarded $8.5 billion under the Biden administration’s CHIPS Act — is working with the Trump administration to address the issues being raised. Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan sent a letter to all staffers on Thursday reacting to “misinformation” in the news. REUTERS Tan has come under fire from both Trump and Sen. Tom Cotton, the chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, over the Intel chief’s past investments in Chinese companies with ties to the Beijing and the military. In a post on his Truth Social platform Thursday morning, Trump wrote that Tan is “highly CONFLICTED and must resign, immediately.” Explore More Inside the enormous Biden effort to 'debank' Trump after Jan. 6 US regulators probe over 137,000 Kia vehicles after complaints of ineffective recall remedy FDA pulls popular ice cream from shelves after packaging mix up: 'Serious allergic reaction' That missive came a day after Cotton (R-Ark.) sent a letter to Intel Chairman Frank Yeary demanding answers about Tan’s financial dealings because he is concerned “about the security and integrity of Intel’s operations and its potential impact on US national security.” A Reuters report earlier this year claimed Tan invested at least $200 million across hundreds of Chinese firms – some with links to the military – between March 2012 and December 2024. Cotton also raised concerns over Tan’s tenure as CEO at Cadence Design, which last week agreed to pay more than $140 million to settle charges that it sold chips to a Chinese military institution, according to Reuters. In Tan’s memo Thursday, he said that Intel’s board is “fully supportive.” However, the beleaguered boss has been emroiled a power struggle with Intel’s board since taking over as CEO in March, sources familiar with the matter told the Wall Street Journal. President Trump speaks at an event in the White House on Thursday. AP The crux of the tensions revolves around whether Intel should continue to manufacture its own chips or exit the business entirely to cut down on costs, according to the report. While Tan has pushed to keep Intel’s own production in place, some board members, led by Yeary, are trying to spin off or sell the money-losing unit, sources said. Yeary has even held talks with Nvidia and Amazon about buying pieces of the business, and explored a potential sale to chipmaker TSMC, according to the Journal. Tan, who was born in Malaysia and grew up in Singapore, replaced ousted CEO Pat Gelsinger following dismal earnings and several rounds of layoffs. Filed under ceos china intel trump 8/8/25 Read Next Trump admin considering two new candidates to be next Fed ... Columnists Charles Gasparino Inside the enormous Biden effort to 'debank' Trump after Jan. 6 Lydia Moynihan 'Sweet Socialism' is a dish best served cold at the NYT Steve Cuozzo NYC's iconic Flatiron Building will get bathed in lights for first time in 123-year history See All Columnists Trending Now in Business This story has been shared 14,140 times. 14,140 Inside the enormous Biden effort to 'debank' Trump after Jan. 6 This story has been shared 1,748 times. 1,748 US regulators probe over 137,000 Kia vehicles after complaints of ineffective recall remedy This story has been shared 1,711 times. 1,711 FDA pulls popular ice cream from shelves after packaging mix up: 'Serious allergic reaction' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report