Vicious killing of 14-year-old Angel Mendoza is so heinous that ‘Raise the Age’ won’t apply for alleged teen killers
Metro Vicious NYC killing of 14-year-old Angel Mendoza is so heinous that ‘Raise the Age’ won’t apply for alleged teen killers By Priscilla DeGregory, Desheania Andrews, Joe Marino and Matt Troutman Published Aug. 8, 2025, 5:31 p.m. ET Some crimes are just too vicious. The bloodthirsty teens who allegedly stabbed, pistol-whipped and beat 14-year-old Angel Mendoza to death Tuesday won’t benefit from New York’s controversial “Raise the Age” law, experts said. The biggest advantages handed to young defendants under the arguably soft-on-crime 2019 law — which upped the age of adult criminal responsibility from 16 to 18 — won’t apply to the murder charges facing the quartet of youthful suspects, two of whom are juveniles. “When you’re talking about violent crimes of the first order — murder, violent, violent acts — they still are going to get prosecuted in [Manhattan] Supreme Court, and if it’s a very, very serious violent crime, they are still certain to be facing very, very serious consequences,” said Mark Bederow, a defense lawyer and former prosecutor. 4 A group of teens stabbed, pistol-whipped and beat Angel Mendoza, 14, to death Tuesday. Family handout 4 The bloody slaying unfolded in Williamsbridge Oval Playground in Norwood. Luiz C. Ribeiro for New York Post Explore More LA County fire captain, accused of faking work injury, pockets $25K insurance payout Trump to host news conference to ‘stop violent crime’ and make DC ‘one of the safest’ cities in the world NYC to shut down last migrant hotel after shelling out $170 million to crime-ridden shelter Two of the alleged killers — Andrew Ansah, 18, and Jordan Williams, 18 — are adults and will be tried in Manhattan criminal court. A 15-year-old boy and 16-year-old boy also charged with the same raps as the 18-year-olds — murder, manslaughter, gang assault and criminal possession of weapon — but because of their age, they likely will head to the “Youth Part” of Manhattan criminal court, Bederow said. The Youth Part features judges specifically trained to deal with young defendants and also offers additional social services. Here is the latest on Angel Mendoza, 14-year-old boy killed at Bronx playground 14-year-old boy stabbed to death in mass brawl at NYC playground Savage murder of NYC boy, 14, who was in wrong place at the wrong time, was filmed by ruthless attackers: sources NYC boy brutally murdered on playground had fallen in with bad crowd, says parents — who hid his shoes to keep him home Vicious NYC killing of Bronx teen is so heinous that ‘Raise the Age’ won’t apply for alleged teen killers 4 Two of the four alleged killers are juveniles. Kyle Mazza/NurPhoto/Shutterstock But the juveniles won’t likely be eligible for lighter sentencing guidelines — often afforded to youths facing lesser crimes — because the charges are so serious. Still, Bederow said their young age could help them. “A judge almost certainly would take into account their age and circumstances in considering the possible difference between a 16-year-old and a hard-boiled 30-year-old killer,” he said. “But at the end of the day, you’re still talking about murder — the sentences can be severe.” Many New York lawmakers and law enforcement officials have called for changes to Raise the Age, arguing it has helped lead to a surge in juvenile crimes. But supporters contend Raise the Age helps young criminals receive resources to help stop them from becoming repeat offenders. 4 Mendoza’s mother, Ramona Hernandez de Mendoza, 36, is comforted by a neighbor. Brigitte Stelzer Leandra Feliz — the mother of 15-year-old Junior Guzman, who was killed in 2018 by a gang of men who dragged him from a Bronx bodega — argued to The Post on Friday that Raise the Age only helps gang members. Feliz said gang members, who can be wildly different ages, should all face the same charges. “Pass a new bill that everyone involved gets the same sentence,” she said. Filed under crime criminal justice reforms nyc the bronx youth 8/8/25 Read Next Hero cops who battled house fire in Queens, saving sleepi... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Listen Now Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Columnists Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? Charles Gasparino Trump backers finally reap rewards after years of debanking, black-listing See All Columnists Page Six Style Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Kylie Jenner sizzles in tiny bikini top ahead of her 28th birthday Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report A group of teens stabbed, pistol-whipped and beat Angel Mendoza, 14, to death Tuesday. Family handout The bloody slaying unfolded in Williamsbridge Oval Playground in Norwood. Luiz C. Ribeiro for New York Post Two of the four alleged killers are juveniles. Kyle Mazza/NurPhoto/Shutterstock Mendoza's mother, Ramona Hernandez de Mendoza, 36, is comforted by a neighbor. Brigitte Stelzer You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement