Trump admin considering two new candidates to be next Fed chair report
Business Trump admin considering two new candidates to be next Fed chair: report By Reuters Published Aug. 8, 2025, 5:29 p.m. ET President Trump’s team is reviewing new contenders to lead the Federal Reserve once Chair Jerome Powell’s term ends in May, including a longtime economic consultant and a past regional Fed president, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday. The 10 or so people on the newly expanded list include former St. Louis Fed President James Bullard and Marc Sumerlin, a former economic adviser to President George W. Bush, WSJ said, citing officials. Trump last week said he had narrowed the list to four. National Economic Council director Kevin Hassett and former Fed governor Kevin Warsh remain under consideration, along with current Fed governor Christopher Waller, WSJ said. Reuters has previously reported that these three are candidates, but could not immediately verify the rest of the report. 3 Former St. Louis Fed President James Bullard is one of 10 candidates to be the next Fed chair, according to a report. REUTERS 3 Marc Sumerlin was a former economic adviser to President George W. Bush. c-span Trump has been criticizing Powell all year for not cutting rates, building on disappointment with the Fed chief that emerged during his first term as president shortly after he elevated Powell to the Fed chair role. Explore More Inside the enormous Biden effort to 'debank' Trump after Jan. 6 US regulators probe over 137,000 Kia vehicles after complaints of ineffective recall remedy FDA pulls popular ice cream from shelves after packaging mix up: 'Serious allergic reaction' It was not clear what a broader list of candidates would mean for the timing of an appointment. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent is helping lead the search. The president moved quickly to name an ally to the Fed Board this week after Fed Governor Adriana Kugler, a Biden appointee who did not support rate cuts, unexpectedly resigned as of the end of this week. Council of Economic Advisers Stephen Miran will serve out the remaining months of Kugler’s term, which ends on Jan. 31. 3 President Trump has been criticizing Fed Chair Jerome Powell all year for not cutting rates. REUTERS Trump has indicated a search continues for someone who could fill the Fed Board role for a 14-year term beginning February 1. Filed under donald trump federal reserve interest rates jerome powell 8/8/25 Read Next US regulators probe over 137,000 Kia vehicles after compla... Columnists Charles Gasparino Inside the enormous Biden effort to 'debank' Trump after Jan. 6 Lydia Moynihan 'Sweet Socialism' is a dish best served cold at the NYT Steve Cuozzo NYC's iconic Flatiron Building will get bathed in lights for first time in 123-year history See All Columnists Trending Now in Business This story has been shared 14,140 times. 14,140 Inside the enormous Biden effort to 'debank' Trump after Jan. 6 This story has been shared 1,748 times. 1,748 US regulators probe over 137,000 Kia vehicles after complaints of ineffective recall remedy This story has been shared 1,711 times. 1,711 FDA pulls popular ice cream from shelves after packaging mix up: 'Serious allergic reaction' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Former St. Louis Fed President James Bullard is one of 10 candidates to be the next Fed chair, according to a report. REUTERS Marc Sumerlin was a former economic adviser to President George W. Bush. c-span President Trump has been criticizing Fed Chair Jerome Powell all year for not cutting rates. REUTERS You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement