US Olympic figure skater Nathan Chen skipping 2026 Games for medical school
Olympics US Olympic figure skater Nathan Chen skipping 2026 Games for medical school By Ryan Giancola Published Aug. 8, 2025, 5:21 p.m. ET Legendary United States figure skater Nathan Chen will not be competing in the 2026 Olympics. The two-time gold medalist will instead attend medical school during the time of the next Olympics, according to the Los Angeles Times. “I just want to open doors to kind of see what’s the best sort of approach for me,” Chen told the outlet, “and frankly, at this point in time in my life, I’ve already accomplished enough in skating that I’m quite satisfied with my career.” The figure skater from Salt Lake City has already been doing work in the classroom during his competing days. 3 USA’s Nathan Chen listening to his national anthem with a gold medal around his neck. EPA Chen holds a degree in statistics and data science from Yale. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer Now with his new path and medical school, Chen told the Times that he’d be interested in studying cardiology or oncology, specifically their relation to genetics. Chen has not ruled out competing in figure skating in the future. But even if he doesn’t skate again, he has plenty of accolades to show. 3 Nathan Chen during his free skating routine. Getty Images Chen is a three-time world champion figure skater who has been to two Olympics. In 2022, he brought home two gold medals. His most significant achievement was winning the individual short program with a score of 113.97. During that year at the Olympics, Chen landed two quadruple jumps, and he didn’t miss a single move in the individual program. 3 Nathan Chen celebrating his victory at the men’s single figure skating ceremony. Getty Images Other than the two gold medals he won, that score of 113.97 is now a world record in the short program. Still, Team USA will be skating in 2026 at the Milano Olympics, with competition starting in February. Filed under nathan chen winter olympics 8/8/25 Read Next Olympics star shoves boyfriend multiple times before domes... Trending Now This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Paris Games Olympic fencer escapes doping ban with kissing defense Swimmer fires back at officials year after being expelled from Olympic Village for allegedly creating 'inappropriate atmosphere' Controversial Olympic boxer's leaked lab results offer new evidence about her biological sex World Boxing points to controversial fighter as it mandates sex testing US Olympic rugby star faces suspension for stamping on opponent's head Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All USA's Nathan Chen listening to his national anthem with a gold medal around his neck. EPA Nathan Chen during his free skating routine. Getty Images Nathan Chen celebrating his victory at the men's single figure skating ceremony. Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement