Army vet suspected of gunning down four people at Montana bar caught after week-long manhunt
US News Army vet suspected of gunning down four people at Montana bar caught after week-long manhunt By Shane Galvin Published Aug. 8, 2025 Updated Aug. 8, 2025, 6:13 p.m. ET The US Army veteran wanted for allegedly killing four people in a smalltown Montana bar was captured Friday after seven days on the run, according to a report. Michael Brown, 45, was taken into custody at 2 p.m. after the week-long manhunt in the rugged countryside outside the town of Anaconda, KTVH reported, citing the Clark County Sheriff’s office. He was found in a structure within the search area that had previously been searched and cleared, according to officials. The alleged madman is being held at the Butte-Silver Bow Detention Center, the report stated. Michael Paul Brown, 45, fled the scene in his underwear and disappeared into the nearby wilderness. via REUTERS The arrest comes exactly one week after the military veteran allegedly opened fire in the Owl Bar in Anaconda killing Nancy Kelley, 64, Daniel Baillie, 59, David Leach, 70, and Tony Palm, 74. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' “I am proud of the unrelenting law enforcement effort this week to find and arrest Michael Paul Brown,” Montana Attorney General Austin Knudsen said in a statement following the arrest. “The support we’ve seen for the community of Anaconda from across the state and the nation has also been remarkable. The families and friends of the victims remain in my prayers,” the statement read. Four people were killed in the mass shooting at The Owl Bar in Anaconda, Montana. AP Brown fled the Owl bar on Aug. 1 in just his underwear after allegedly committing the heinous murders and disappeared into the wilds of Montana, according to authorities The suspect lived next door to the bar and was a regular at the dive. Brown served in the US Army as an armor crewman from 2001 to 2005 and was deployed to Iraq from 2004 to the end of that term, according to KTVH. He also served in the National Guard from 2006 to 2009, that report stated. Filed under manhunts mass shootings montana shootings 8/8/25 Read Next Hero cops who battled house fire in Queens, saving sleepi... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,878 times. 17,878 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers