Hero cops who saved sleeping residents from NYC house fire promoted at NYPD ceremony ‘Uncommon valor’
Metro exclusive Hero cops who saved sleeping residents from NYC house fire promoted at NYPD ceremony: ‘Uncommon valor’ By Amanda Woods and Natalie O'Neill Published Aug. 8, 2025, 5:01 p.m. ET Two hero cops who bravely battled a house fire in Queens and saved two sleeping residents last month were promoted at an NYPD ceremony Friday — as one of the officers called the daring job “a calling.” Emergency Services Unit Det. Daniel Dongvort, 38, and Sgt. Bryan J. Vesely, 34, — who leapt to action, busting down doors and ushering victims to safety on July 16 — were hailed as “the best of the best” by Police Commissioner Jessica Tisch at the packed event at One Police Plaza. Dongvort, who along with Vesely are volunteer firefighters in Long Island, said keeping a cool head was key as they burst into the burning home in Jamaica. “It’s a smoke-filled environment. There’s a lot of things that are kind of going through your head,” said Det. Daniel Dongvort, 38, of Suffolk County, who was bumped up to Detective Second Grade Friday. 4 Det. Daniel Dongvort, 38, and Sgt. Bryan J. Vesely, 34, — who leapt to action, busting down doors and ushering victims to safety on July 16 — were promoted at One Police Plaza. James Messerschmidt “The only thing I ever wanted to do was be an emergency cop. I do think it’s somewhat of a calling,” he told The Post of the elite, 350-member unit. “I think you have to kind of have a knack for staying calm in high-stress situations.” Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' “It’s an honor to be recognized,” he said of the promotion. 4 Cops battled the blaze at a home in Queens. Obtained by the New York Post Vesely, who was promoted to Sergeant Special Assignment, recalled finding a man and woman dozing in the basement of the blazing home. “It was a relief for us to be able to find them and get them out of there safely, knowing that…there’s no one else inside,” he said. “They seemed grateful and thankful.” Vesely Dongvort were on patrol in ESU Truck 9 in Jamaica on July 16, when they smelled smoke and spotted it pouring from an attic on 229th Street. 4 NYPD Commissioner Jessica Tisch called the cops “the best of the best” at a promotion ceremony. James Messerschmidt The courageous cops quickly headed inside to battle the blaze, dramatic body camera footage shows. Dongvort grabbed air tanks and door-opening halligan tools along with a pressurized water can out of the ESU truck. The duo donned compressed oxygen packs, pried open doors and began scouring the home for survivors as they knocked back flames with a water can. 4 Dramatic footage shows the cops fighting the house fire in Queens. New York City Police Department The officers soon discovered a sleeping man and woman downstairs and hurriedly escorted them outside. Dongvort and Vesely were two of 135 uniformed cops promoted Friday at One Police Plaza, where Tisch hailed the pair as “highly trained” and “well equipped.” “They weren’t about to wait around for a [fire department] response,” she said. “Without any hesitation, they entered the burning house and walked from room to room, searching for survivors,” she said. “ESU officers like Bryan and Dan, they respond to unprecedented tragedy with uncommon valor.” Filed under fires jessica tisch nypd 8/8/25 Read Next NYC boy brutally killed on playground had fallen in with b... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Listen Now Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Columnists Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? Charles Gasparino Trump backers finally reap rewards after years of debanking, black-listing See All Columnists Page Six Style Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Kylie Jenner sizzles in tiny bikini top ahead of her 28th birthday Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Det. Daniel Dongvort, 38, and Sgt. Bryan J. Vesely, 34, — who leapt to action, busting down doors and ushering victims to safety on July 16 — were promoted at One Police Plaza. James Messerschmidt Cops battled the blaze at a home in Queens. Obtained by the New York Post NYPD Commissioner Jessica Tisch called the cops "the best of the best" at a promotion ceremony. James Messerschmidt Dramatic footage shows the cops fighting the house fire in Queens. New York City Police Department You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement