Fate of Kelly Clarkson’s talk show revealed after death of ex-husband Brandon Blackstock
TV Fate of Kelly Clarkson’s talk show revealed after death of ex-husband Brandon Blackstock By Connor Surmonte Published Aug. 8, 2025, 5:00 p.m. ET Kelly Clarkson’s talk show is said to be moving forward after the shocking death of her ex-husband, Brandon Blackstock. “The Kelly Clarkson Show,” which premiered in 2019, is still scheduled to return for its seventh season this fall, according to TMZ. 13 Kelly Clarkson during the beginning of an episode of “The Kelly Clarkson Show.” Weiss Eubanks/NBCUniversal via Getty Images 13 Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson shortly before their 2020 split. MediaPunch / BACKGRID Insiders told the outlet that new episodes of Clarkson’s popular daytime program are set to air in September, with separate sources telling Page Six that the “Since U Been Gone” singer’s mysterious absences this past season were because of Blackstock’s illness. Sources also shared with TMZ that the staff of “The Kelly Clarkson Show” knew about Blackstock’s private cancer battle, but they kept the information hush-hush out of respect for Clarkson and her family’s privacy. Explore More Jamie Lee Curtis gives blunt response to Pamela Anderson and Liam Neeson's romance Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain How Reba McEntire supported ex-stepson Brandon Blackstock in final months before his death Blackstock passed away Thursday, Aug. 7, following a secret fight with melanoma, a serious form of skin cancer. He was 48. 13 The talent manager and “Since U Been Gone” singer shortly after their 2013 wedding. Instagram/@kellyclarkson 13 Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson at the 60th annual Grammy Awards at Madison Square Garden in New York City on January 28, 2018. WireImage “It is with great sadness that we share the news that Brandon Blackstock has passed away. Brandon bravely battled cancer for more than three years,” the late talent manager’s family said in a statement to The Post. “He passed away peacefully and was surrounded by family. We thank you for your thoughts and prayers and ask everyone to respect the family’s privacy during this very difficult time,” they added. Clarkson, 43, postponed the remaining August shows of her Las Vegas residency hours before her ex’s death, marking the second time she canceled dates since it kicked off last month. 13 Kelly Clarkson postponed the remaining shows of her Las Vegas residency hours before her ex’s death. @kellyclarkson/Instagram The “Stronger” singer revealed her ex-husband’s illness in a heartbreaking statement on Wednesday. “Unfortunately, I need to postpone the remainder of the August Studio Session dates in Las Vegas,” she wrote on Instagram two days before her residency was set to pick back up. “While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father has been ill and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them,” Clarkson added. “I am sincerely sorry to everyone who bought tickets to the shows and I so appreciate your grace, kindness and understanding.” 13 Kelly Clarkson performing at the Citi Concert Series for the “Today” show in New York City on May 6, 2025. Jackie Brown / SplashNews.com 13 The “Stronger” singer during the sixth season of “The Kelly Clarkson Show” on NBC. Weiss Eubanks/NBCUniversal via Getty Images The “Because of You” singer-songwriter first sparked concern earlier this year when she missed 10 episodes of her syndicated NBC talk show. Clarkson’s celebrity friends stepped in to help host “The Kelly Clarkson Show,” and the first-ever “American Idol” winner later revealed that she was dealing with a personal matter. However, insiders shared that Clarkson’s life was unraveling behind the scenes due to Blackstock’s worsening health. 13 Kelly Clarkson fights back tears during the emotional 1,000th episode of her talk show. YouTube/@kellyclarksonshow 13 Kelly Clarkson wipes away tears during the emotional 1,000th episode of her talk show. YouTube/@kellyclarksonshow “It’s been exhausting and so sad,” a source told Page Six. “Kelly has been working so hard, as well as looking after Brandon. Despite their difficult divorce, he’s still the man she loved and still her kids’ father.” Clarkson and Blackstock, who was country superstar Reba McEntire’s former stepson, met during a rehearsal for the Academy of Country Music Awards in May 2006 and reconnected years later at the Super Bowl. The pair married in 2013, and later welcomed two children: daughter River, 11, and son Remy, 9. 13 Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson backstage after she performed songs from her album, “The Meaning of Life,” at the Rainbow Room in New York City on September 6, 2017. Kevin Mazur 13 Remington Blackstock, Savannah Blackstock, Kelly Clarkson, River Blackstock, Brandon Blackstock and Seth Blackstock at the Los Angeles premiere of “UglyDolls” on April 27, 2019. / SplashNews.com Blackstock was Clarkson’s manager during their marriage. But nearly seven years after tying the knot, the Grammy winner filed for divorce from Blackstock in 2020. Following an ugly legal battle, which included a fight over custody of their two kids and their Montana ranch, Clarkson and Blackstock reached a settlement in 2022. Clarkson is said to be “devastated” for her children in the wake of Blackstock’s death. 13 Kelly Clarkson filed for divorce from Brandon Blackstock in 2020. Instagram/@kellyclarkson 13 Kelly Clarkson performing for her audience during “The Kelly Clarkson Show.” Weiss Eubanks/NBCUniversal via Getty Images “When she found out that he was sick, she remained protective of him for their sake,” a source told People after his passing. “Kelly has always tried to keep things classy,” they added. “It became clear earlier this year that Brandon was not doing well. She’s been devastated for the kids.” Filed under brandon blackstock celebrity deaths celebrity exes kelly clarkson talk shows 8/8/25 Read Next ‘Modern Family’ star Aubrey Anderson-Emmons 'surprised... Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Kelly Clarkson during the beginning of an episode of "The Kelly Clarkson Show." Weiss Eubanks/NBCUniversal via Getty Images Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson shortly before their 2020 split. MediaPunch / BACKGRID The talent manager and "Since U Been Gone" singer shortly after their 2013 wedding. Instagram/@kellyclarkson Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson at the 60th annual Grammy Awards at Madison Square Garden in New York City on January 28, 2018. WireImage Kelly Clarkson postponed the remaining shows of her Las Vegas residency hours before her ex's death. @kellyclarkson/Instagram Kelly Clarkson performing at the Citi Concert Series for the "Today" show in New York City on May 6, 2025. Jackie Brown / SplashNews.com The "Stronger" singer during the sixth season of "The Kelly Clarkson Show" on NBC. Weiss Eubanks/NBCUniversal via Getty Images Kelly Clarkson fights back tears during the emotional 1,000th episode of her talk show. YouTube/@kellyclarksonshow Kelly Clarkson wipes away tears during the emotional 1,000th episode of her talk show. YouTube/@kellyclarksonshow Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson backstage after she performed songs from her album, "The Meaning of Life," at the Rainbow Room in New York City on September 6, 2017. Kevin Mazur Remington Blackstock, Savannah Blackstock, Kelly Clarkson, River Blackstock, Brandon Blackstock and Seth Blackstock at the Los Angeles premiere of "UglyDolls" on April 27, 2019. / SplashNews.com Kelly Clarkson filed for divorce from Brandon Blackstock in 2020. Instagram/@kellyclarkson Kelly Clarkson performing for her audience during "The Kelly Clarkson Show." Weiss Eubanks/NBCUniversal via Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 13 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement