Boxed wine isn’t just swill anymore, experts say — here’s how to get the most bang for very few bucks
Food & Drink Boxed wine isn’t just swill anymore, experts say — here’s how to get the most bang for very few bucks By Caroline Cubbin Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:54 p.m. ET Not all boxes are made equally, some sparing sommeliers seem to think. Though boxed wines are often regarded as repulsive to bacchants beyond the age of 20, leading wine experts say they actually have some merit — if the consumer is choosy about the candidate in question. “Whites and rosés can be enjoyed very young, so those are good choices for boxed wine. If you are going for a red, choose a young red and not a type of wine where you want some age on it,” sommelier Grace Hood told HuffPost. Less expensive boxed alternatives can also be ideal ways to test out trendy variants or labels for the first time. Ole – stock.adobe.com Of course, this doesn’t mean all of the cardboard-cased Chardonnays, Cabernets and Concords are the creme de la creme. Hood also advised picking a product that’s not manufactured by a colossal corporation. This is where harmful — and hangover-inducing — additives like sugar and food coloring typically come into the mix. Explore More This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women OnlyFans star with two vaginas reveals her stunning 2025 earnings — and biggest tipper American tourists apparently have this puzzling tendency when traveling abroad, Europeans say — ‘Absolutely insane’ As cocktail costs seem to continue soaring with no end in sight — NYC beverage baselines are often beyond $20 — many imbibers are looking to cut corners where they can. Boxed wines are often cheaper than bottled variants because of the reduced manufacturing rates that cardboard and plastic components typically boast — plus, they’re more sustainable for the everyman and the Earth alike, the outlet pointed out. Some brands are now even offering consumers personal-sized boxes. Dennis M. Swanson – stock.adobe.com See Also The secret nobody wants you to know about boxed wine “These products were created to minimize the carbon footprint in the wine world and to certainly bring value, convenience and ecology to the consumer,” said Jean-Charles Boisset of California’s Boisset Family Estates, of the innovations in box tech back in 2016. The plastic bag that lines the interior of the box shrinks as wine is released from it — effectively sealing in the remaining stuff and preventing it from being spoiled by oxygen — so it tends to keep better than its corked cousins, and in some cases, can last for up to six weeks. Traditionalists needn’t be terrified of the boxed wine renaissance, though — the classic bottle still reigns supreme. But the box is still creeping up the charts. As previously covered by The Post, top boxed wine brands to look out for include Black Box, FishEye, Banrock Station and BotaBox from California; French Rabbit and La Petite Frog from France; and Maipe from Chile. Hood echoed this — and advised keeping an eye out for smaller wine labels with natural ingredients. Filed under alcohol cocktails wine 8/8/25 Read Next I tested Factor prepared meal delivery — my honest revie... Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 10 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 19 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 11 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,151 times. 36,151 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,217 times. 33,217 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 26,784 times. 26,784 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 19,315 times. 19,315 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 16,935 times. 16,935 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All