Owner of Trump-themed Texas burger joint faces deportation
US News Owner of Trump-themed Texas burger joint faces deportation for overstaying his visa By Jennie Taer Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:53 p.m. ET The owner of Texas’ Trump Burger may soon be deported as part of the president’s mass deportation campaign, Homeland Security officials told The Post. Roland Beainy, from Lebanon, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers in May after it was found he had overstayed his visa. The restaurateur, who opened his first location of the Donald Trump-themed burger joint in 2020, arrived in the United States on a non-immigrant tourist visa in 2019, DHS said. 4 Trump Burger restaurant exterior featuring signage lauding the president. Staff photographer The visa expired in February 2024, but Beainy didn’t leave and continued to live in the country illegally. But the Trump fan’s political beliefs won’t spare him from the administration’s crackdown on illegal immigration. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' 4 Photo of Roland Beainy, owner of a Trump-themed Texas burger restaurant. Roland Beainy / Facebook “Under the current administration, ICE is committed to restore integrity to our nation’s immigration system by holding all individuals accountable who illegally enter the country or overstay the terms of their admission,” DHS said in a statement to The Post. “This is true regardless of what restaurant you own or political beliefs you might have,” the agency added. The feds also “revoked” the Lebanon native’s petition for immigration status after members of his own family admitted that his marriage was “a sham designed to game the system,” DHS said. 4 The restaurant serves burgers with “Trump” branded on the buns, served with french fries and a small American flag. AFP via Getty Images “The Department of Homeland Security has zero tolerance for immigration fraud, and this individual’s claims are baseless,” DHS said. “This person has no Green Card, a history of illegal marriages, and an assault charge. DHS is actively pursuing all legal avenues to address this flagrant abuse of our immigration laws,” the agency added. The pro-Trump illegal migrant hit back at the feds’ allegations against him, saying the allegations are “not true” in a statement to the Houston Chronicle. 4 A portrait of Trump hangs above the order and pick-up areas at the burger chain. Houston Chronicle via Getty Imag An immigration judge allowed Beainy’s release from federal custody in June after he requested a bond, but his deportation case is still ongoing. The Trump-themed burger chain opened in 2020 in Bellville and has since expanded to four locations across the Houston area. In a recent Facebook post, the casual eatery featured a video showing a Trump impersonator jokingly asking Latina diners for their green cards. The restaurant also sued its Kemah, Texas, landlord, Archie Patterson, in June, alleging he forced staff out and took control of the location, according to the Houston Chronicle. Patterson, however, accused Beainy of unpaid debts in his own lawsuit. Filed under deportation donald trump illegal immigrants immigration lebanon us border 8/8/25 Read Next Trump sets Aug. 15 Alaska meeting with Putin in latest bid... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,878 times. 17,878 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers Trump Burger restaurant exterior featuring signage lauding the president. Staff photographer Photo of Roland Beainy, owner of a Trump-themed Texas burger restaurant. Roland Beainy / Facebook The restaurant serves burgers with "Trump" branded on the buns, served with french fries and a small American flag. AFP via Getty Images A portrait of Trump hangs above the order and pick-up areas at the burger chain. Houston Chronicle via Getty Imag You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement