Trump confirms ‘we’re going to have a meeting with Russia’ in latest bid to end Ukraine war
Politics Trump sets Aug. 15 Alaska meeting with Putin in latest bid to end Ukraine war By Victor Nava and Caitlin Doornbos Published Aug. 8, 2025 Updated Aug. 8, 2025, 6:49 p.m. ET WASHINGTON — President Trump confirmed Friday that he will meet one-on-one with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Alaska next week in yet another attempt to end Moscow’s 41-month-old invasion of Ukraine. “We’re going to have a meeting with Russia, start off with Russia, and we’ll announce a location,” Trump told reporters at the White House. “I think the location will be a very popular one, for a lot of reasons, but we’ll be announcing that a little bit later,” the president added. ““It would have been sooner, but I guess there’s security arrangements that unfortunately people have to make. Otherwise I’d do it much quicker. He would, too. He’d like to meet as soon as possible. I agree with it.” 3 President Trump told reporters he will soon meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in an attempt to end the 41-month-old invasion of Ukraine. REUTERS Trump subsequently confirmed the date and place in a post on Truth Social. “The highly anticipated meeting between myself, as President of the United States of America, and President Vladimir Putin, of Russia, will take place next Friday, August 15, 2025, in the Great State of Alaska,” the president wrote. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' “Further details to follow. Thank you for your attention to this matter!” he added. The president had suggested a day earlier that he would be willing to meet face-to-face with Putin before bringing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky into talks, contradicting statements made earlier to The Post by White House officials. The meeting would be the first US-Russia bilateral since former President Joe Biden met Putin at Geneva, Switzerland in June 2021. Trump and Putin last met face-to-face in 2019, on the sidelines of the G-20 summit in Osaka, Japan. News of a Trump summit with Putin worried Ukrainians who spoke to The Post, but the US president’s words stoked some hope that a reported proposal described by one official as the Kremlin’s “wishlist” would not be forced on Kyiv. The unlikely pitch would have required Ukraine to cede Crimea and all of its Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts — or regions — to Putin, including the roughly 33% of those two regions that Russia has not been able to capture, an informed source told The Post. But the floated deal would violate not only US law, but also the Ukrainian constitution, which prohibits the recognition of any of Kyiv’s post-Soviet territory being seized by another country. 3 Trump threatened Putin with secondary sanctions as the war rages in Ukraine. AP Not only is the US government prohibited by law from recognizing Russian sovereignty claims, but related economic sanctions on the pro-Moscow leaders of those regions cannot be lifted without the consent of Congress, according to another US source. “Any recognition, especially sanctions relief, would be a very heavy lift,” this person told The Post. Asked Friday whether he was “surprised that `Zelensky hasn’t figured out by now, in years of war, how to deal with you and to deal with Putin without needing permission to make concessions from his Parliament or from a national referendum,” Trump didn’t take the bait. 3 A previous Friday deadline for Putin to reach a cease-fire was set before Trump announced he would be meeting with the Russian president at a very popular location, which he will be announcing “a little bit later.” POOL/AFP via Getty Images “In all fairness to President Zelensky, he’s getting everything he needs to, assuming we get something done,” Trump said. The president, 79, previously imposed a Friday deadline on Putin to reach a cease-fire with Ukraine or face secondary sanctions connected to Russian energy sales. The president announced an additional 25% tariff on India related to its oil purchases earlier this week, to take effect Aug. 27. No other sanctions had been announced as of Friday evening. Filed under donald trump russia ukraine ukraine war vladimir putin 8/8/25 Read Next FAA to 'supercharge' air traffic controller hiring on Long... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All President Trump told reporters he will soon meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in an attempt to end the 41-month-old invasion of Ukraine. REUTERS Trump threatened Putin with secondary sanctions as the war rages in Ukraine. AP A previous Friday deadline for Putin to reach a cease-fire was set before Trump announced he would be meeting with the Russian president at a very popular location, which he will be announcing “a little bit later.” POOL/AFP via Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement