Slain NYC boy recently fell in with bad crowd, prompting parents to reach out to police — and even hide his shoes
Metro exclusive details NYC boy brutally murdered on playground had fallen in with bad crowd, say parents — who hid his shoes to keep him home By Georgett Roberts, Joe Marino and Matt Troutman Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:48 p.m. ET The Bronx teen savagely slain for being in the wrong place at the wrong time had recently fallen in with a troubled crowd, prompting his worried parents to take drastic steps — with his dad even hiding his shoes to try to keep him at home. A rebellious turn by 14-year-old Angel Mendoza — who was pistol-whipped, beaten and repeatedly stabbed late Tuesday in apparent revenge for a playground fight he wasn’t involved in — began in May, when the formerly good student started skipping class, his father Miguel Mendoza told The Post on Friday. Miguel Mendoza blamed the bad influence of his son’s friends for him starting to stray off the straight-and-narrow path. “I would hide the shoes so he won’t go out, but he’d find a way to go out,” the heartbroken dad said. 3 The parents of Angel Mendoza, 14, described Friday how they recently struggled to keep him on the straight-and-narrow. Georgett Roberts/NYPost 3 Angel, who wasn’t involved in gangs or crimes, was viciously killed by a group of fellow teens, police said. Family handout Explore More LA County fire captain, accused of faking work injury, pockets $25K insurance payout Trump to host news conference to ‘stop violent crime’ and make DC ‘one of the safest’ cities in the world NYC to shut down last migrant hotel after shelling out $170 million to crime-ridden shelter The change in Angel — who was not in a gang or involved in any criminal activity, according to law-enforcement sources — was concerning enough that Miguel Mendoza said he contacted authorities seeking some kind of help, to no avail. “I went to family court, they did nothing,” he said. “I called the police, they said he’s a minor, they can’t do nothing. I went to ACS, they did nothing.” A source said authorities could have provided services if he’d been the victim of a crime. Here is the latest on Angel Mendoza, 14-year-old boy killed at Bronx playground 14-year-old boy stabbed to death in mass brawl at NYC playground Savage murder of NYC boy, 14, who was in wrong place at the wrong time, was filmed by ruthless attackers: sources NYC boy brutally murdered on playground had fallen in with bad crowd, says parents — who hid his shoes to keep him home Vicious NYC killing of Bronx teen is so heinous that ‘Raise the Age’ won’t apply for alleged teen killers Angel Mendoza regularly hung out at Williamsbridge Oval Playground in Norwood, where he played basketball like his favorite NBA players LeBron James and Ja Morant, his father said. He was at the playground Tuesday evening when a group of teens attacked him in apparent revenge for the stabbing of a 17-year-old boy earlier that evening, source said. Angel was not involved at that fight or involved in it in any way but may have known people who were part of it — making his death a senseless case of “wrong place, wrong time,” sources said. 3 Angel’s mother Ramona Hernandez de Mendoza is inconsolable Friday. Brigitte Stelzer Miguel Mendoza, who cradled Angel’s inconsolable mother Ramona Hernandez de Mendoza at times as he spoke, remembered his son as a loving child who was fond of rap, reggaeton and dance. He said Angel was born in the Dominican Republic, the second of three siblings, and had moved to the city when he was 4. “There is a hole in my heart because my son is not here,” the dad said. “He’s gone. He’s not coming back. He was my first boy. I’m very angry — a lot. “I want justice to be served.” Filed under crime murders nyc stabbings the bronx youth 8/8/25 Read Next Supermarket mogul who lost son in drowning accident saves ... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Listen Now Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Columnists Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? Charles Gasparino Trump backers finally reap rewards after years of debanking, black-listing See All Columnists Page Six Style Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Kylie Jenner sizzles in tiny bikini top ahead of her 28th birthday Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report The parents of Angel Mendoza, 14, described Friday how they recently struggled to keep him on the straight-and-narrow. Georgett Roberts/NYPost Angel, who wasn't involved in gangs or crimes, was viciously killed by a group of fellow teens, police said. Family handout Angel's mother Ramona Hernandez de Mendoza is inconsolable Friday. Brigitte Stelzer You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement