Anthony Richardson favored to be Colts’ starting quarterback Week 1 despite injury concern
Betting Anthony Richardson favored to be Colts’ starting quarterback Week 1 despite injury concern By Dylan Svoboda Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:44 p.m. ET Anthony Richardson Sr. #5 of the Indianapolis Colts drops back to pass in the first quarter against the Baltimore Ravens during the NFL Preseason 2025 game at M&T Bank Stadium on August 07, 2025 in Baltimore, Maryland. Getty Images Gambling content 21+. The New York Post may receive an affiliate commission if you sign up through our links. Read our editorial standards for more information. Despite injury concerns, oddsmakers still expect Anthony Richardson to be the Colts’ starting quarterback come Week 1. The third-year signal-caller is a heavy -245 favorite at FanDuel Sportsbook Canada to be the starter when the Colts host the Dolphins in Indianapolis in their season opener on Sept. 7. Just eight minutes into the first quarter of the Colts’ preseason opener against the Ravens on Thursday night, Richardson was hit hard by an unblocked David Ojabo and was forced to leave the game. Richardson reportedly dislocated his pinky on the play, with Indianapolis head coach Shane Steichen later saying his pinky “popped out, popped back in.” The Colts got good news on the injury-prone Richardson after X-rays on his finger came back negative. Explore More Cubs vs. Cardinals predictions: MLB odds, picks, best bets Saturday BetMGM bonus code POSTBET for $1,500 in bonus bets for Yankees vs. Astros on Saturday UFC Vegas 109 predictions: Roman Dolidze vs. Anthony Hernandez picks, odds, best bets He could return to practice as soon as Saturday, according to ESPN. The outlet added that Richardson made some light throws on the sideline before getting ruled out of Thursday’s game. Anthony Richardson Sr. #5 of the Indianapolis Colts is sacked in the first quarter by David Ojabo #90 of the Baltimore Ravens during the NFL Preseason 2025 game at M&T Bank Stadium on August 07, 2025 in Baltimore, Maryland. Getty Images The Colts are still trying to figure out what they have in the 2023 No. 4 overall pick. Richardson, who has started 15 games while collecting 21 total touchdowns and 13 interceptions across an up-and-down first two seasons, has dealt with shoulder, back, foot, and hip injuries, as well as a concussion, since joining the team. Betting on the NFL? Read our expert guide on how to bet on the NFL Check out the best NFL betting sites Get the BetMGM Bonus Code Former Giants quarterback Daniel Jones, who was brought in as a veteran competitor for the starting job, is still being given a realistic shot at taking the QB1 spot from Richardson, sitting at +186 to start Week 1. Riley Leonard, who the Colts drafted in the sixth round of the 2025 NFL Draft with the 189th overall pick, is a +8000 long shot to be the Week 1 starter. Why Trust New York Post Betting Dylan Svoboda is a versatile writer and analyst across many sports. He’s particularly knowledgeable about the big three — MLB, the NFL and the NBA. Filed under anthony richardson Daniel Jones indianapolis colts nfl betting sports betting Sports Picks 8/8/25 Read Next The bet Stitches is making on Yankees-Astros showdown Trending Now in Sports This story has been shared 13,126 times. 13,126 Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare This story has been shared 8,135 times. 8,135 NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win This story has been shared 5,850 times. 5,850 Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer This story has been shared 5,501 times. 5,501 Justin Fields era off to good start for Jets This story has been shared 5,002 times. 5,002 Giants rookie throws absolute dime for first NFL touchdown pass in thrilling debut Columnists Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be See All Columnists