The Yankees open series vs. Astros with Apple TV+ broadcast—Watch for free
MLB The Yankees open series vs. Astros with Apple TV+ broadcast—Watch for free By Angela Tricarico Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:33 p.m. ET New York Post may be compensated and/or receive an affiliate commission if you click or buy through our links. Featured pricing is subject to change. After starting August on the road, the New York Yankees return home tonight to start a three-game series against the Houston Astros. In their most recent game, the struggling Yankees snapped a five-game losing streak with a 3-2 win against the Texas Rangers. With the playoffs inching closer, the Yankees, at third in the AL East (6.5 games behind the first-place Blue Jays), are currently in the third wild card spot. This weekend, they’ll face an Astros team who are still atop the AL Central, but have gone 4-6 in their last 10 games. yankees vs. astros: what to know When: Aug. 8, 7:05 p.m. ET Where: Yankee Stadium (The Bronx, New York) Streaming: Apple TV+ Tonight’s Friday Night Baseball is exclusive to Apple TV+, but fear not: It’s easy and free to subscribe and tune in. What time is Yankees vs. Astros tonight? The Yankees and Astros play tonight, Aug. 8, at 7:05 p.m. ET. What channel is the Yankees game on? The Yankees game tonight, Aug. 8, will be exclusively on Apple TV+ and not on television. How to watch Yankees vs. Astros for free: Tonight’s Yankees vs. Astros game is exclusively on Apple TV+, so you’ll need a subscription to watch the game. Apple TV+ offers a seven-day free trial for users, so you’ll be able to watch two weeks of MLB doubleheaders before payment kicks in. TRY APPLE TV+ FOR FREE Amazon Prime members can also subscribe to Apple TV+ directly through Prime Video. It costs the same $9.99/month price and also includes a seven-day free trial. Yankees vs. Astros starting pitchers Cam Schlitter will be on the mound for the Yankees; he is 1-2 this season with a 4.58 ERA and 21 strikeouts. Hunter Brown gets the start for the Astros today. This season, he is 9-5 with an ERA of 2.47 and 155 strikeouts. Why Trust Post Wanted by the New York Post This article was written by Angela Tricarico, Commerce Streaming Reporter for Post Wanted Shopping, Page Six, and New York Post’s streaming property, Decider. Angela keeps readers up to date with cord-cutter-friendly deals, and information on how to watch your favorite sports teams, TV shows, and movies on every streaming service. Not only does Angela test and compare the streaming services she writes about to ensure readers are getting the best prices, but she’s also a superfan specializing in the intersection of shopping, tech, sports, and pop culture. Prior to joining Decider and The New York Post in 2023, she wrote about streaming and consumer tech at Insider Reviews Filed under houston astros How to Watch new york yankees streaming 8/8/25 Read Next Roger Clemens on famous Mike Piazza World Series broken ba... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Yankees Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Houston Astros at New York Yankees Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 11 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets New York Yankees at St. Louis Cardinals Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard