LeBron and Savannah vacation in St. Tropez with Kyle Kuzma and Winnie Harlow
Sports Entertainment LeBron and Savannah vacation in St. Tropez with Kyle Kuzma and Winnie Harlow By Jenna Lemoncelli Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:33 p.m. ET LeBron James is enjoying his European summer amid speculation about his Lakers future. The NBA’s all-time leading scorer and his wife, Savannah James, were spotted in St. Tropez with Bucks forward Kyle Kuzma and his fiancée, Winnie Harlow, as seen in an Instagram post the model shared on Friday. LeBron and Kuzma were Lakers teammates for three seasons and won a championship together in the NBA Bubble in 2020. View this post on Instagram A post shared by ♔Winnie Harlow♔ (@winnieharlow) It’s unclear where exactly the photo was taken, though the couples, who were dressed to the nines, appeared to be partying on a yacht. The snapshot made waves online after the Lakers signed a slimmed-down Luka Doncic to a three-year, $165 million extension on Saturday. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer 4 Kyle Kuzma shoots a free throw against the Indiana Pacers during Round 1 Game 4 of the 2025 NBA Playoffs on April 27, 2025, at Fiserv Forum Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. NBAE via Getty Images 4 Savannah James and LeBron James with Kyle Kuzma and his fiancée Winnie Harlow in St. Tropez. Instagram/Winnie Harlow LeBron, who’s been at the center of trade rumors this offseason, did not join his teammates at the press conference announcing the extension. He also made waves when he was spotted working out at the old Clippers practice facility recently, as well as the Cavaliers’ practice facility earlier this summer. 4 Lakers forward LeBron James (23) is entering his 23rd NBA season this fall. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect LeBron, who will turn 41 in December, is certainly enjoying his summer after accepting his $52.6 million player option. The 21-time All-Star and Savannah, along with his business partner, Maverick Carter, were spotted partying in the South of France late last month. 4 LeBron James and his wife, Savannah James, in Portofino, Italy, on July 26, 2025. COBRA TEAM / BACKGRID LeBron is rumored to want out of the Lakers after his agent, Rich Paul, released an eye-opening statement regarding the four-time NBA champ accepting his player option that referenced building a championship roster. “LeBron wants to compete for a championship,” Paul told ESPN last month. “He knows the Lakers are building for the future. He understands that, but he values a realistic chance of winning it all. We are very appreciative of the partnership that we’ve had for eight years with Jeanie [Buss] and Rob [Pelinka] and consider the Lakers as a critical part of his career. “We understand the difficulty in winning now while preparing for the future. We do want to evaluate what’s best for LeBron at this stage in his life and career. He wants to make every season he has left count, and the Lakers understand that, are supportive and want what’s best for him.” The 2025-26 season will mark James’ 23rd season in the NBA, and he has a no-trade clause in his contract. Filed under kyle kuzma LeBron James los angeles lakers savannah brinson wags winnie harlow 8/8/25 Read Next Roger Clemens on famous Mike Piazza World Series broken ba... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Scoreboard Kyle Kuzma shoots a free throw against the Indiana Pacers during Round 1 Game 4 of the 2025 NBA Playoffs on April 27, 2025, at Fiserv Forum Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. NBAE via Getty Images Savannah James and LeBron James with Kyle Kuzma and his fiancée Winnie Harlow in St. Tropez. Instagram/Winnie Harlow Lakers forward LeBron James (23) is entering his 23rd NBA season this fall. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect LeBron James and his wife, Savannah James, in Portofino, Italy, on July 26, 2025. COBRA TEAM / BACKGRID You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement