Jalen Milroe’s impressive Seahawks preseason debut was a ‘dream come true’
NFL Jalen Milroe’s impressive Seahawks preseason debut was a ‘dream come true’ By Bryan Fonseca Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:29 p.m. ET Jalen Milroe made his NFL debut Thursday, going 6-of-10 for 61 passing yards during the Seahawks’ preseason game. The former Alabama standout was drafted in the third round of the 2025 NFL Draft after an individually successful tenure with the Crimson Tide. Milroe — who described the game as a “dream come true,” according to Pro Football Talk — was picked No. 92 overall amid the Seahawks’ signing of Sam Darnold following the departure of Geno Smith, shifting the quarterback room in Seattle. Jalen Milroe was picked in Round 3 of the 2025 NFL Draft after playing for the Alabama Crimson Tide in college, where he was one of the best quarterbacks in the country in 2023. Getty Images Seahawks QB Jalen Milroe: Every Throw and Run from preseason debut vs the Raiders 🔥 pic.twitter.com/sWpk6cpOLL — awthentik (@awthentik) August 8, 2025 Milroe also ran for 38 yards Thursday, took one sack and logged the second most snaps under center following Drew Lock, who returned to the Seahawks this year. “I thought Jalen played well. I thought he made good decisions,” head coach Mike Macdonald told reporters, according to Pro Football Talk. “Operation-wise there are some things we want to be a little cleaner on. Throwing the ball accurately, throwing it on time, and then when it wasn’t there, extending plays with his legs, I thought was really cool.” The third-round pick finished sixth in Heisman voting as a redshirt sophomore in 2023 after throwing 23 touchdowns to just six interceptions and running for an additional 12 touchdowns. That year, Milroe recorded a combined 3,365 yards, including 2,834 through the air. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer Jalen Milroe made his NFL debut against the Raiders after being picked in the third round of the 2025 NFL Draft by the Seattle Seahawks. Getty Images As a redshirt junior, Milroe managed just 16 passing touchdowns and 11 interceptions, and his quarterback rating dropped from 172 to 148. Still, Milroe managed to rush for 726 yards on the ground and 20 touchdowns. He recorded over 3,500 yards in total, the most of his collegiate career. The Seahawks tied the Raiders, 23-23, in their first preseason game. Lock added a 12-of-22 passing display for 147 yards through the air with a touchdown and an interception. Smith started for the Raiders but only played a series, just completing one pass — a 15-yard connection — in three attempts. Filed under jalen milroe seattle seahawks 8/8/25 Read Next Ex-Packer star, believed to have been NFL's oldest living ... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard