FAA to ‘supercharge’ air traffic controller hiring on Long Island; seeks 9K more nationwide
Politics FAA to ‘supercharge’ air traffic controller hiring on Long Island; seeks 9K more nationwide By Josh Christenson Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:28 p.m. ET WASHINGTON — The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) launched a new application portal to “supercharge” hiring at a Long Island air traffic control facility this week, as it seeks to recruit and retain nearly 9,000 more controllers nationwide by the end of 2028. The hiring blitz for New York Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) in East Garden City — which has been understaffed for years — aims to fill 226 positions over the next three years, according to figures released by the FAA. Currently, the facility is short at least 100 Certified Professional Controllers (CPCs), the staff who are fully cleared for the job. 4 Sean Duffy says the Trump admin “made more progress on addressing the air traffic controller shortage than the last one did in four years.” Getty Images The FAA air traffic controller academy in Oklahoma City is accepting New York TRACON applications through Aug. 15 — with each being offered a $5,000 bonus for completing the initial qualification training and another $5,000 after getting placed at a facility in “a high cost-of-living area.” The DOT’s Office of Inspector General is currently auditing New York TRACON — which handles incoming and outgoing flights from JFK and LaGuardia airports — after controllers overseeing Newark Liberty Airport’s airspace were moved to a radar hub in Philadelphia from the East Garden City facility in July 2024. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' The move shifted a dozen CPCs to the City of Brotherly Love while New York TRACON’s skeleton crews kept working 60-hour weeks. That was followed by hair-raising, 90-second radar blackouts in April and May of this year affecting controllers handling Newark flights. “TRACON N90 oversees the busiest airspace in the country, and it is in dire need of more air traffic controllers and key infrastructure upgrades,” Rep. Laura Gillen (D-NY) told The Post. “I’m glad the FAA is working to recruit more controllers,” Gillen added. “However, much more needs to be done, including reversing last year’s misguided decision to relocate controllers from Long Island to Philadelphia.” “I recently invited Secretary Duffy to tour N90 and see the important work our air traffic controllers do firsthand,” she also said. “I look forward to his visit to Westbury and hope he will fully implement the recommendations from the DOT’s audit.” 4 Up to 35% of academy students flunk out, according to an FAA spokesperson. Federal Aviation Administration Thousands of other outages due to the FAA’s outdated systems and near-misses have also plagued the FAA. Almost 1,000 candidates from across the country have signed up for the FAA Academy so far this year, with 550 applying in July alone after Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy announced a streamlining of the process meant to cut down on five months’ worth of administrative backlog and accelerate hiring of top candidates. The FAA said it will be recruiting mainly from the private sector and the US military with the goal of filling all academy classrooms to capacity — while using simulators at 95 facilities to cut total training time by 27%. Up to 35% of academy students flunk out, according to an FAA spokesperson, meaning the agency will have to keep making improvements to hit its target numbers — or come up short by up to 3,000 hires. 4 More than 2,000 air traffic controllers are expected to join the FAA this year. Federal Aviation Administration More than 2,000 air traffic controllers are expected to join the FAA this year as part of the agency’s workforce plan, with 8,900 projected to be hired through 2028. Another 4,600 safety inspectors and engineers are supposed to join the FAA by the end of 2034. “In our first 100 days, this administration has made more progress on addressing the air traffic controller shortage than the last one did in four years,” Duffy boasted in a statement. 4 The Department of Transportation’s Office of Inspector General is currently auditing New York TRACON. Lukas Wunderlich – stock.adobe.com The transportation chief has offered FAA controllers cash bonuses of up to 20% of their annual salaries and other waivers to incentivize veterans from leaving the workforce at the mandatory retirement age of 56. In May, the Post exclusively reported on efforts by the controllers’ union to block the move. The urgency of staffing up the FAA was driven home by the tragic Jan. 29 mid-air collision between an American Airlines passenger flight and an Army Black Hawk helicopter in the sky over Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, killing 63 people. Filed under air travel airplanes department of transportation faa jfk airport laguardia airport recruiting sean duffy 8/8/25 Read Next Trump administration seeks $1 billion settlement from UCLA... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Sean Duffy says the Trump admin "made more progress on addressing the air traffic controller shortage than the last one did in four years." Getty Images Up to 35% of academy students flunk out, according to an FAA spokesperson. Federal Aviation Administration More than 2,000 air traffic controllers are expected to join the FAA this year. Federal Aviation Administration The Department of Transportation’s Office of Inspector General is currently auditing New York TRACON. Lukas Wunderlich - stock.adobe.com You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement