Roger Clemens on famous Mike Piazza World Series broken bat drama ‘If I wanted to hit him with it, I could have’
MLB Roger Clemens on famous Mike Piazza World Series broken bat drama: ‘If I wanted to hit him with it, I could have’ By Camden Markel Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:27 p.m. ET Two and a half decades later, Roger Clemens’ broken bat throw at Mike Piazza is still a defining moment of the Subway Series rivalry. While many were outraged and confused when Clemens took a chunk of Piazza’s broken bat and fired it into the ground right back at him, Clemens has set the record straight numerous times over the years and did so once again on the latest episode of Jack Curry’s “Yankees News & Views” podcast. Roger Clemens fields Mike Piazza’s broken bat during Game 2 of the Subway Series World Series on Oct. 22, 2000. AP “TV made it look like it was five feet from him,” Clemens said. “I didn’t think it was that close to the guy, and I definitely wasn’t throwing it at him. I tease people now … if I wanted to hit him with it, I could have hit him with it.” Clemens detailed that the reason he fielded the bat in the first place was because his initial instinct was that the baseball was coming back at him. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer “So, I broke down into my wonderful fielding position, and wouldn’t ya know, that bat took two hops, came right up into my freaking lap, and I just grabbed it and whistled it on down to the on-deck circle,” he said. Of course, this led to mayhem as the benches cleared. Clemens and Piazza had to be separated by the home plate umpire during the first inning of Game 2 of the World Series in 2000. AP While the broken bat and the ensuing chaos weren’t part of the plan, the fastball that shattered Piazza’s bat was. “Mike got in the box and I think my first three pitches were like 98, 98, 98. And I shattered his bat,” Clemens said. “The scouting report with [Yankees pitching coach] Mel Stottlemyre was great, too. We were in the trainer’s room going through the lineup, and when we got to Piazza, we said, ‘We’re gonna pitch him in. And we’re gonna pitch him in. And we’re gonna pitch him in.’” The Yankees pitcher went on to retire Piazza with a ground ball out, and the Pinstripes took down the Mets 6-5 en route to their 4-1 2000 World Series win. Filed under mike piazza new york mets new york yankees roger clemens 8/8/25 Read Next MLB's first woman umpire had 'super emotional' reaction to... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Mets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Mets at Milwaukee Brewers Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Atlanta Braves at New York Mets Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Atlanta Braves at New York Mets Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets Atlanta Braves at New York Mets Aug 14 2025 | Get Tickets Seattle Mariners at New York Mets Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard