Eric Adams declares Aug 8 ‘Stew Leonard Day’ after supermarket mogul saves life of choking PIX11 worker
Metro Eric Adams declares Aug 8 ‘Stew Leonard Day’ after supermarket mogul saves life of choking PIX11 worker By Natalie O'Neill Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:24 p.m. ET Mayor Eric Adams on Friday cheered a New York supermarket mogul who saved the life of a choking PIX11 staffer after his own son’s drowning death — declaring Aug. 8 “Stew Leonard Day.” Adams praised Stew Leonard Jr., who owns a chain of eponymous grocery stores in the tri-state area, for springing to action to perform the Heimlich maneuver on the crew member Aug. 1. “Stew Leonard’s life took on new purpose after the heartbreaking loss of his son in a swimming accident,” Adams said on X Friday. 5 Mayor Eric Adams named August 8 “Stew Leonard Day” after the New York supermarket mogul, far right, who saved the life of a choking PIX11 staffer after his own son’s drowning death. Stew Leonard's/Facebook “It brought him to learn a new skill that would save the life of another person, and that helps keep so many of NYC residents safe. Today, we honor him by making this ‘Stew Leonard Day.'” Leonard Jr., whose 21-month-old son drowned in 1989, had just appeared on the station to discuss his swimming safety foundation when crew member Kurt Bennett began choking on a piece of steak from another segment, the company wrote on Instagram. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Leonard quickly performed the Heimlich maneuver on Bennett, dislodging the meat from his esophagus. 5 “It brought him to learn a new skill that would save the life of another person, and that helps keep so many of NYC residents safe,” Adams said about Leonard Jr., whose 21-month-old son drowned in 1989. StewLeonardIIIWaterSafetyFoundation/Facebook 5 Aug. 8 was delcared “Stew Leonard Day” after he performed the Heimlich maneuver on a crew member on Aug. 1. PIX11 5 Leonard Jr. was at PIX11 to talk about swimming and water safety when a PIX11 crew member, Kurt Bennett, left, began choking on a piece of steak left over from a previous cooking segment. PIX11 5 Leonard said he learned the Heimlich maneuver during lifeguard training for the Stew Leonard III Water Safety Foundation, which he founded in 1990 after his son’s drowning. Stewie the Duck Mayor Adams also posted a video message on X Friday about Leonard’s quick-thinking and resilience. “The painful moment he had losing a child helped him start a foundation to save young people…by giving swimming lessons, and he used that same skill to save a young man here,” Adams said in the footage. Leonard, who had just made an appearance on “New York Living,” said he learned the first-aid procedure during lifeguard training for the Stew Leonard III Water Safety Foundation, which he founded in 1990. Filed under drownings supermarkets swimming 8/8/25 Read Next Infuriated preservationists slam NYC's plan to demolish an... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Listen Now Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Columnists Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? Charles Gasparino Trump backers finally reap rewards after years of debanking, black-listing See All Columnists Page Six Style Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Kylie Jenner sizzles in tiny bikini top ahead of her 28th birthday Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Mayor Eric Adams named August 8 “Stew Leonard Day” after the New York supermarket mogul, far right, who saved the life of a choking PIX11 staffer after his own son's drowning death. Stew Leonard's/Facebook "It brought him to learn a new skill that would save the life of another person, and that helps keep so many of NYC residents safe," Adams said about Leonard Jr., whose 21-month-old son drowned in 1989. StewLeonardIIIWaterSafetyFoundation/Facebook Aug. 8 was delcared “Stew Leonard Day” after he performed the Heimlich maneuver on a crew member on Aug. 1. PIX11 Leonard Jr. was at PIX11 to talk about swimming and water safety when a PIX11 crew member, Kurt Bennett, left, began choking on a piece of steak left over from a previous cooking segment. PIX11 Leonard said he learned the Heimlich maneuver during lifeguard training for the Stew Leonard III Water Safety Foundation, which he founded in 1990 after his son's drowning. Stewie the Duck You are viewing 1 of 5 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement