Infuriated preservationists slam city’s plan to demolish and replace an historic West Village pool ‘Outrageous!’
Metro Infuriated preservationists slam NYC’s plan to demolish and replace historic West Village pool: ‘Outrageous!’ By Hannah Fierick Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:21 p.m. ET West Village preservationist groups are outraged over the city’s recently announced plan to demolish and replace the beloved Tony Dapolito recreation and aquatic center. Opponents of the proposed project claim that the landmarked structure — which opened in 1908 and features an iconic mural by the artist Keith Haring — has been subject to years of neglect by the city and was shuttered in 2019 due to the disrepair. Now, city officials with the parks department and the mayor’s office have introduced a new solution for the aging building — which involves tearing it down to make way for a brand new complex — and finding space for the mural in the renovated property. Andrew Berman, executive director of Village Preservation, an advocacy group leading the charge to restore the space, called the new proposal “outrageous”. 4 The Tony Dapolito building, which features a mural by the artist Keith Haring. William Farrington “I don’t know who the mayor thinks he is serving or pleasing with this demolition plan, but it’s not the people of Lower Manhattan, and it’s not the people of the city of New York,” Berman contested. Explore More Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' The supposed fate of the Dapolito building is part of a massive, $164 million project spanning over 100,000 square feet to re-vamp the Clarkson street corridor. The renderings hinge on demolishing the old center and erecting a brand new outdoor aquatics complex in its place. The blueprint also includes enhanced green space and an indoor recreation center at 388 Hudson street, which is undeveloped. 4 The renovation proposal includes over 100,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor space. NYC Parks “It is of course, welcome that the NYC Parks Department is pursuing much-needed renovations along the Clarkson Street corridor,” said Sommer Omar, a community organizer fighting to restore the Dapolito Center. She argued though, the plan shouldn’t center on demolishing the historic structure. “We should be safeguarding all of our public spaces, not forcing communities to sacrifice one for the sake of another,” she said. In April, advocates were allowed to scope out the deteriorating building for themselves, and confirmed alongside inspectors that it could be salvaged with proper procedure. 4 The building, which was constructed in 1908, faces demolition if the city’s plan comes to fruition. William Farrington “There is nothing, nothing in that building that is beyond repair,” Berman insisted. To further the frustration – at a Community Board meeting Wednesday evening, Parks Commissioner Iris Rodriguez-Rosa revealed that $120 million had already been allocated to the building’s restoration – but the city hadn’t taken actionable steps to begin the process. Despite the challenges ahead, Berman and his coalition of neighbors and preservationists are, ready to put up a fight, he says. The group secured landmark status for the property 15 years ago, which means the city can’t demolish it without approval from the Landmark Preservation Commission. “Now, that commission is appointed and controlled by the mayor, so he’s got his thumb on the scale there, but we will fight him every step of the way there,” he said. 4 Iconic artist Keith Haring painted the mural in 1987. Michael Sofronski The Mayor’s office did not respond to a request for comment. A spokesperson for parks department said of the preservation process, “We understand the deep historical and emotional significance of the Tony Dapolito Center to the community. That’s why the City is committed to honoring the site’s legacy while delivering new, accessible, and future-ready recreational resources. As part of the Clarkson Street Corridor initiative, we are investing in a reimagined outdoor pool and pool house at the current Tony Dapolito site. This includes preserving the iconic Keith Haring mural and expanding recreational offerings with a new, fully accessible indoor recreation center to be built nearby at 388 Hudson Street.” Filed under landmarks preservation commission mayor nyc pools west village 8/8/25 Read Next Quiet, please! Check out 5 great secret NYC escapes where... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 37,926 times. 37,926 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 30,362 times. 30,362 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 29,860 times. 29,860 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 23,565 times. 23,565 This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women Listen Now Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Columnists Rikki Schlott Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? Charles Gasparino Trump backers finally reap rewards after years of debanking, black-listing See All Columnists Page Six Style Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Kylie Jenner sizzles in tiny bikini top ahead of her 28th birthday Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report The Tony Dapolito building, which features a mural by the artist Keith Haring. William Farrington The renovation proposal includes over 100,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor space. NYC Parks The building, which was constructed in 1908, faces demolition if the city's plan comes to fruition. William Farrington Iconic artist Keith Haring painted the mural in 1987. Michael Sofronski You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement