Trump administration seeks $1 billion settlement from UCLA after suspending millions in school’s federal grants
Politics Trump administration seeks $1 billion settlement from UCLA after suspending millions in school’s federal grants By Associated Press Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:13 p.m. ET The Trump administration is seeking a $1 billion settlement from the University of California, Los Angeles, a White House official said Friday. The person was not authorized to speak publicly about the request and spoke on condition of anonymity. The Trump administration has suspended $584 million in federal grants, the university said this week. 3 A White House official confirmed that the Trump administration is seeking a $1 billion settlement from the University of California, Los Angeles. YURI GRIPAS/POOL/EPA/Shutterstock In recent weeks, the Department of Justice has accused UCLA of antisemitism. UCLA is the first public university whose federal grants have been targeted by the administration over allegations of civil rights violations related to antisemitism and affirmative action. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' The Trump administration has frozen or paused federal funding over similar allegations against private colleges. The new UC president, James B. Milliken, said in a statement Friday that it had received notice from the Department of Justice and is reviewing it. 3 UCLA said President Trump suspended $584 million in federal grants to the university. Getty Images 3 UCLA has also faced recent accusations of antisemitism from the Department of Justice. Getty Images “Earlier this week, we offered to engage in good faith dialogue with the Department to protect the University and its critical research mission,” Milliken said. “As a public university, we are stewards of taxpayer resources and a payment of this scale would completely devastate our country’s greatest public university system as well as inflict great harm on our students and all Californians.” UCLA recently reached a $6 million settlement with three Jewish students and a Jewish professor who sued the university, arguing it violated their civil rights by allowing pro-Palestinian protesters in 2024 to block their access to classes and other areas on campus. The university has said it is committed to campus safety and inclusivity and will continue to implement recommendations. Filed under affirmative action antisemitism california Colleges and universities donald trump settlements ucla white house 8/8/25 Read Next Trump ousts Billy Long as IRS commissioner 2 months after ... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All A White House official confirmed that the Trump administration is seeking a $1 billion settlement from the University of California, Los Angeles. YURI GRIPAS/POOL/EPA/Shutterstock UCLA said President Trump suspended $584 million in federal grants to the university. Getty Images UCLA has also faced recent accusations of antisemitism from the Department of Justice. Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement