Inside Israel’s plan to take over Gaza City — with one date holding symbolic meaning
World News Inside Israel’s plan to take over Gaza City and defeat Hamas — with one date holding symbolic meaning By David Propper Published Aug. 8, 2025, 4:03 p.m. ET Israel’s security cabinet approved a plan Friday to take over Gaza City in a major escalation of its war against Hamas — with the risky move expected to take place in phases. The announcement stopped short of stating Israel would take over the entire Palestinian enclave; however, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Thursday that an entire takeover is what the Jewish state intends to do. The plan to take control of the Gaza Strip’s largest city and capital will reportedly be gradual and in multiple phases, a source told CNN. The first phase of the operation, according to the source, would involve the evacuation of Gaza City and an expansion of aid distribution. 3 An Israeli soldier gestures next to an Israeli flag at an area near the Israel-Gaza border in southern Israel on July 30. ABIR SULTAN/EPA/Shutterstock The deadline for Palestinians to flee the major city would reportedly be Oct. 7, the second anniversary Hamas’ depraved attack that killed 1,200 Israelis and led to the kidnapping of 250 more. Explore More European cities slap hefty fees on tourists — here's what it'll cost if you're caught wearing flip flops Influencer wife of drunk Virgin Atlantic passenger who threatened to rape flight attendant defends husband's vile outburst Porsche driver clocks 199MPH on Germany's infamous Autobahn That date was picked intentionally for its symbolism, the source told CNN. And while humanitarian aid is expected to ratchet up during this phase, it won’t take place in Gaza City, so civilians don’t linger in the area, a second Israeli source told the outlet. It wasn’t clear what exactly the subsequent phases would involve, but the overall plan could take up to five months, an Israeli official reportedly said before the cabinet’s high-stakes vote. The approved plan ultimately calls to disarm Hamas and retrieve the rest of the living hostages and bodies of slain hostages, while demilitarizing the entire strip. It also calls for a new government to rule the enclave that is not Hamas or the Palestinian Authority. 3 Israeli soldier organize equipment as they are standing on tanks near the border with the Gaza Strip on Aug. 6, 2025. Getty Images Meanwhile, as the takeover plan was approved, the Israel Defense Forces was seen in commercial satellite images adding more troops and equipment near the border of Gaza Friday. The buildup indicates that a fresh ground invasion of the neighboring territory is possible, three US officials and a former official who saw the photos told NBC News. Netanyahu has said he wants to take over all of Gaza, but doesn’t want to govern it permanently and instead wants to hand it off to an Arab governance that won’t seek to destroy Israel. 3 Tents used as temporary shelters by displaced Palestinians are set up near war-damaged buildings in Gaza City on August 8, 2025. AFP via Getty Images The takeover plan has drawn fierce blowback, including from IDF chief Eyal Zamir, who claimed it would put the hostages in danger and worsen the humanitarian crisis in Gaza, the first source told CNN. Following the security cabinet’s vote, Germany announced it wouldn’t send more military equipment to Israel that could be used in Gaza. Foreign ministers in the Netherlands and Denmark called Israel’s latest decision “wrong” while European Commissioner Ursula von der Leyen said it “must be reconsidered.” With Post wires Filed under benjamin netanyahu israel Israel-Hamas war palestinians 8/8/25 Read Next Zookeepers save life of baby porcupine with unique type of... Trending Now in World News This story has been shared 11,358 times. 11,358 European cities slap hefty fees on tourists -- here's what it'll cost if you're caught wearing flip flops This story has been shared 2,456 times. 2,456 Influencer wife of drunk Virgin Atlantic passenger who threatened to rape flight attendant defends husband's vile outburst This story has been shared 2,373 times. 2,373 Porsche driver clocks 199MPH on Germany's infamous Autobahn This story has been shared 1,704 times. 1,704 Manhattan-sized interstellar object could be alien probe here to 'destroy us': Harvard scientist Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report An Israeli soldier gestures next to an Israeli flag at an area near the Israel-Gaza border in southern Israel on July 30. ABIR SULTAN/EPA/Shutterstock Israeli soldier organize equipment as they are standing on tanks near the border with the Gaza Strip on Aug. 6, 2025. Getty Images Tents used as temporary shelters by displaced Palestinians are set up near war-damaged buildings in Gaza City on August 8, 2025. AFP via Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement