Kate Hudson rocks bikini on adventure getaway with family in Colorado
Kate Hudson Kate Hudson rocks bikini on adventure getaway with family in Colorado 'Almost Famous' star shares Instagram photos from Colorado vacation with 'soul reset' caption By Lori A Bashian Fox News Published August 8, 2025 6:31pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Fox News Flash top entertainment headlines August 8 Fox News Flash top entertainment and celebrity headlines are here. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Kate Hudson is enjoying some time away with her family. The 46-year-old "Almost Famous" star posted a series of photos on Instagram from her family vacation in Colorado, which included some familiar faces. One of the photos shows Kate giving the camera a smirk as she brushes her hair out of her face. In the photo, she's wearing a brown bikini top and holding a guitar. She captioned the post, "Soul reset." Kate Hudson posted a series of photos from her family vacation in Colorado. (Kate Hudson Instagram; Getty Images) HALLE BERRY CHANNELS INNER BOND GIRL IN BIKINI PHOTOS FROM LAKE POWELL VACATION Also included in the carousel of photos were pictures of Kate with her famous family, including her mom, actress Goldie Hawn. In one photo, the mother-daughter duo poses for a photo with Kate's daughter, Rani Rose, and actress Dakota Johnson. "Kate, Goldie, Dakota all my favorite women!!!" one fan wrote in the comments section. Another added, "Is that Dakota in second picture?🤩." Kate Hudson posted a photo of her in a brown bikini top with a guitar. (Kate Hudson Instagram) Other photos in the post showed Kate horseback riding with other friends and family members and photos of the surrounding beauty, prompting one follower to comment, "❤️ Beautiful country with great people ❤️." Hudson and Johnson were also recently spotted together soaking up the sun while on a yacht off the coast of Ibiza in July to celebrate the birthday of Naomi Campbell's partner, Mohammed Al Turki. Dakota Johnson, right, and Kate Hudson were spotted catching some sun while on a yacht off the coast of Ibiza over the summer. Johnson joined Hudson for her family vacation in Colorado. (Getty Images) Prior to that, Kate posted a series of photos from yet another family vacation in Greece, which featured more members of her famous family, including brothers Oliver Hudson and Wyatt Russell. When speaking with Entertainment Tonight at the premiere of her Netflix show, "Running Point," in February 2025, Kate shot down the notion her family could ever star in a reality show, bluntly saying, "It'll never happen." LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Kate Hudson shot down any chance of there being a reality show starring her family. (JC Olivera/Variety via Getty Images) "Listen, my dad, he's just too cool. He'd rather just be in Colorado just being dad. … Snake Plissken doesn't do reality," Kate said, referencing stepdad Kurt Russell's character in the movies "Escape from New York" and "Escape from LA." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Russell and Hawn began dating when Kate and Oliver were both young, and although the couple never married, he shares a close bond with them both. "Essentially, he raised me. … I'm the man I am today because of him," Oliver said on "Sibling Revelry," his podcast with Kate. "There was a moment when he asked us — myself and Kate — if we wanted to be adopted, and we said no. Not that we were, you know, very aware of probably what it even f---ing meant. … We just said, 'Well, we don't need it. The love is right there.' Oliver Hudson credited Kurt Russell for raising him. (Vince Bucci/Getty Images) CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "At the same time, when you don't have your biological [father] around, it's hard to replace that, no matter what. The love was there with Kurt, no doubt about it. He is my dad. I call him Pa. But there was always, not something missing, but it was always sort of like, ‘Wow, but there’s that other side.'" Lori Bashian is an entertainment production assistant for Fox News Digital. Related Topics Kate Hudson Entertainment Movies TV Colorado Trending Reba McEntire Reba McEntire considered late stepson Brandon Blackstock her 'blood' family before his death Gwyneth Paltrow Gwyneth Paltrow's daughter Apple Martin twins with famous mom in Hamptons bikini pics Crime Sharon Tate's ex fought Manson Family killers during heroic final moments: nephew Entertainment Newsletter Fox News Entertainment Newsletter: Kelly Clarkson’s ex-husband dead at 48, Dean Cain becomes ICE agent Entertainment Valerie Bertinelli leans on Betty White’s wisdom during life’s hardest moments Entertainment Sydney Sweeney confesses she wasn’t prepared for the emotional toll of fame amid political controversies Fox News Entertainment Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!