Brandon Blackstock appeared happy with daughter in photo weeks before his death
Entertainment Brandon Blackstock appeared happy with daughter in photo weeks before his death By Alexandra Bellusci Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:59 p.m. ET Brandon Blackstock spent quality time with his family before his tragic death. Weeks before the talent manager died at age 48, he was photographed with his eldest daughter, Savannah, 23. He reportedly died of melanoma, a serious form of skin cancer. Last month, Savannah shared a picture on Facebook of her standing next to her dad. Blackstock had one arm around her shoulder, his other hand on his hip, and his leg up on a bench. The duo smiled for the snap. 8 Savannah Blackstock and her dad Brandon Blackstock. Savannah Lee Blackstock wore a zip-up, sweats, and a matching black hat. Savannah also sported a black sweatshirt. She captioned the July 20 picture, “Back home to the mountains & my daddy.” Explore More Jamie Lee Curtis gives blunt response to Pamela Anderson and Liam Neeson's romance Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain How Reba McEntire supported ex-stepson Brandon Blackstock in final months before his death Blackstock resided in Butte, Montana. Just a month before Blackstock’s death, Savannah announced that she was expecting her second child. She shared the news on her private Instagram account on July 5. 8 Savannah Blackstock shared pictures of her dad to Facebook in June. Savannah Lee 8 Savannah Blackstock poses with her dad Brandon Blackstock. Savannah Lee/Facebook “We’ve been keeping a couple sweet surprises,” penned Savannah. “One little girl will be making her arrival at the beginning of January and another beautiful girl named Julianna who has already been one of the greatest blessings to our family.” Along with Savannah, Blackstock is also dad to son Seth, 18, with his ex-wife Melissa Ashworth. The pair were married from 2001 to 2012. He also shared daughter River, 11, and son Remy, 9, with ex-wife Kelly Clarkson. Blackstock’s family shared the news of his passing on Thursday. “It is with great sadness that we share the news that Brandon Blackstock has passed away. Brandon bravely battled cancer for more than three years,” they said in a statement obtained by The Post. “He passed away peacefully and was surrounded by family. We thank you for your thoughts and prayers and ask everyone to respect the family’s privacy during this very difficult time.” 8 Kelly Clarkson, Brandon Blackstock and Savannah Blackstock at the Billboard Music Awards in May 2018. FilmMagic 8 Brandon Blackstock poses with his family on the red carpet in LA in April 2019. WireImage Just hours before, Clarkson, 43, abruptly canceled the remaining August shows of her Las Vegas residency. The “American Idol” winner wrote on her Instagram Wednesday evening, “Unfortunately, I need to postpone the remainder of the August Studio Session dates in Las Vegas.” “While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father has been ill and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them,” Clarkson revealed. In 2020, the exes had a rocky split after nearly seven years of marriage. Clarkson filed for divorce on June 4, 2020, citing irreconcilable differences. In November of that year, she was awarded temporary primary physical custody of River and Remy. According to court documents, “the level of conflict between the parents [had] increased” and that they had “a difficult time co-parenting due to issues of trust between them.” 8 Kelly Clarkson and Brandon Blackstock in NYC on September 6, 2017. Kevin Mazur 8 Kelly Clarkson and Brandon pose for a selfie. Instagram/@kellyclarkson The documents also stated that Clarkson and Blackstock agreed that they “shall not speak in a derogatory manner about the other parent to the minor children. The custodial parent shall not allow the minor children to be in the presence of any third party who speaks about the other parent in a derogatory manner.” The “Stronger” singer alleged that Blackstock acted fraudulently as her manager. He ultimately denied defrauding his estranged wife out of millions. Clarkson ended up relocating with her children to New York City for “The Kelly Clarkson Show.” “The move to NYC was a fresh start for her that she has never regretted,” an insider told People in 2024. “She had not been happy in Los Angeles for a while but was still nervous about moving. It was the best decision for her though. They thrive as a family.” 8 Brandon Blackstock with his daughter. Instagram/@kellyclarkson The Grammy winner opened up about co-parenting in March, noting there is a double standard when it comes to working moms and working dads. Clarkson joked she looks “like [an] a – – hole” when she can’t show up to her child’s function due to work, but when Blackstock can’t make it, he isn’t met with the same response. “And then [my daughter] is like, ‘Why weren’t you there? This person’s mommy was there,’” the “American Idol” winner explained on Kylie Kelce’s “Not Gonna Lie” podcast. “And I’m like, ‘Congratulations to her because she made different decisions that led to her being able to be there on a Thursday at 10 a.m.’” Filed under brandon blackstock celebrity children celebrity couples celebrity exes death kelly clarkson 8/8/25 Read Next ‘Modern Family’ star Aubrey Anderson-Emmons 'surprised... Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 10 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 19 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 11 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Listen now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Savannah Blackstock and her dad Brandon Blackstock. Savannah Lee Savannah Blackstock shared pictures of her dad to Facebook in June. Savannah Lee Savannah Blackstock poses with her dad Brandon Blackstock. Savannah Lee/Facebook Kelly Clarkson, Brandon Blackstock and Savannah Blackstock at the Billboard Music Awards in May 2018. FilmMagic Brandon Blackstock poses with his family on the red carpet in LA in April 2019. WireImage Kelly Clarkson and Brandon Blackstock in NYC on September 6, 2017. Kevin Mazur Kelly Clarkson and Brandon pose for a selfie. Instagram/@kellyclarkson Brandon Blackstock with his daughter. Instagram/@kellyclarkson You are viewing 1 of 8 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement