Jen Pawol’s ‘super emotional’ reaction to becoming MLB’s first woman umpire ‘Like a fully charged battery’
MLB Jen Pawol’s ‘super emotional’ reaction to becoming MLB’s first woman umpire: ‘Like a fully charged battery’ By Ryan Giancola Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:59 p.m. ET A doubleheader between the Marlins and the Braves on Saturday will feature history, with a woman umpire officiating a game for the first time in MLB history. And Jen Pawol was “overcome with emotion” after learning that she’d be the one to break the gender barrier. “It was super emotional to finally be living that phone call that I’d been hoping for and working towards for quite a while,” Pawol told the Associated Press, “and I just felt super full. I feel like a fully charged battery ready to go.” 3 Jen Pawol is pictured at a spring training game in March 2024. AP Her umpire journey began in 1990 when she was the umpire for her local high school, West Milford High, in New Jersey. She was not just good at umpiring softball — she was also a talented player, playing at Hofstra and becoming a three-time all-conference selection. Explore More Fans give Jen Pawol plenty of support as she makes MLB history as first female umpire New Jersey native Jen Pawol to become first woman to umpire an MLB game No one could believe ‘Christmas gift’ Orioles got with brutal strike call against Pete Crow-Armstrong Beginning in 2010, Pawol was an umpire for college softball games. During her time in that position, she met big league umpire Ted Barrett at a camp in Binghamton. With that connection, Pawol was invited to an MLB tryout camp in Cincinnati in 2015, and Barrett then brought her to a dinner with more MLB umpires and gave her a warning. 3 Jen Pawol calls a strike behind the plate during a March 2024 spring training game. AP “I warned her: ‘Look, this is what you’re up against. It’s going to be 10 years in the minor leagues before you sniff a big league field,” Barrett told the AP. But that did not stop Pawol, as she was then one of the 38 umpires invited to Vero Beach, Fla., for the Umpire Training Academy in 2016. 3 Jen Pawol is pictured during an MLB spring training game in March 2024. AP Her first league she covered was the Gulf Coast League in 2016. But every year, she continued to move up the ladder. In 2024 and 2025, she was brought up to be an umpire for spring training games. And now, on Saturday at 1:15 p.m., her journey will reach the MLB level. “This has been over 1,200 minor league games, countless hours of video review trying to get better, and underneath it all has just been this passion and this love for the game of baseball,” Pawol told the AP. “This started in my playing days as a catcher and transformed over into an umpire, and I think it’s gotten even stronger as an umpire. Umpiring is for me, it’s in my DNA. It’s been a long, hard journey.” Filed under umpires 8/8/25 Read Next The bet Stitches is making on Yankees-Astros showdown Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All MLB TRADE BIG BOARD MLB trade deadline 2025 big board: All the names on the move Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Yankees Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. Houston Astros at New York Yankees Aug 10 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 11 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 12 2025 | Get Tickets Minnesota Twins at New York Yankees Aug 13 2025 | Get Tickets New York Yankees at St. Louis Cardinals Aug 15 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Scoreboard Jen Pawol is pictured at a spring training game in March 2024. AP Jen Pawol calls a strike behind the plate during a March 2024 spring training game. AP Jen Pawol is pictured during an MLB spring training game in March 2024. AP You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement