Ex-Packer Billy Howton, believed to have been NFL’s oldest living player, dead at 95
NFL Ex-Packer Billy Howton, believed to have been NFL’s oldest living player, dead at 95 By Associated Press Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:57 p.m. ET HOUSTON — Billy Howton, a former Green Bay Packers star regarded as one of the most productive wide receivers of the pre-Super Bowl era who was a founder and the first president of the NFL Players Association, has died. He was 95. Howton died in Houston on Monday, according to an obituary. Bradshaw-Carter Funeral Home confirmed his death on Friday. Howton was born in Littlefield, Texas, in 1930. He was believed to have been the oldest living NFL player. “We are saddened by the passing of Billy Howton,” the NFLPA said in a post on X. “He was a key figure in the NFLPA’s formation & a pioneer for player rights. Because of Billy’s advocacy as our first president, today’s players have a pension, disability benefits & a voice of their own in the business of football.” 3 Billy Howton is pictured in 1958 after a conference on the feasibility of a player pension plan. AP Howton scored the Packers’ first receiving touchdown at Lambeau Field in 1957. He was a second-round selection by the Packers in 1952 and became the first NFL rookie with a 1,000-yard receiving season after recording 1,231 yards that year. He led the league in receiving yards twice, was named to four Pro Bowls and was a two-time All-Pro. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer He holds Green Bay’s single-game franchise record with 257 receiving yards in a 1956 game against the Los Angeles Rams, and when he retired in 1963, he was the NFL’s all-time leading receiver in receptions (503) and receiving yards (8,459). He was inducted into the Packer Hall of Fame in 1974. “For my money, Howton is the toughest pass receiver to cover in the National League,” Hall of Fame safety Emlen Tunnell said before the 1958 season, which was Howton’s last with the Packers. 3 Billy Howton is pictured in 1956. The Enthusiast Network via Getty Images 3 Billy Howton is pictured in 1961. AP After seven years in Green Bay, Howton was traded to the Cleveland Browns in 1959 and then to Dallas as a member of the Cowboys’ inaugural team in 1960. He spent the rest of his career there, playing for coach Tom Landry with quarterbacks Eddie LeBaron and Don Meredith. Howton was a consistent presence in the NFLPA during its early years and attended every player rep meeting between 1956 and 1961. He represented the Packers at the first NFLPA meeting in 1956 and brought with him a list of four grievances that famously included a need for clean towels, shirts and jock straps for second practices — when NFL teams held two practices a day. He was elected as the organization’s first president in 1958 and threatened to bring an antitrust suit against the NFL if it didn’t establish a pension plan for retired players. The league’s pension plan was subsequently created in 1959. Howton was an All-American in college at Rice and is a member of the Rice Hall of Fame. He is survived by his three children, Karin, Kimberly and William. Filed under green bay packers obits obituaries 8/8/25 Read Next How Colts rookie fared in preseason debut as QB battle hea... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Billy Howton is pictured in 1958 after a conference on the feasibility of a player pension plan. AP Billy Howton is pictured in 1956. The Enthusiast Network via Getty Images Billy Howton is pictured in 1961. AP You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement