This $79.5M Wyoming ranch is 4 times the size of New York City — and larger than Rhode Island
Real Estate This $79.5M Wyoming ranch is 4 times the size of New York City — and larger than Rhode Island By Emily Davis Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:54 p.m. ET Watch out, city slickers — you could fit more than four New York Cities inside this ranch. A 916,076-acre grazing empire in Wyoming listed this week for a grand total of $79.5 million, the New York Times reported. Pathfinder Ranches, which encompasses four separate properties, is one of the largest working ranches in the Rocky Mountains, and occupies more than 1% of its home state given its massive size. The gargantuan listing nestled between mountain ranges offers potential buyers a money-making empire, a resource-rich landscape and a significant slice of American history. 10 Pathfinder Ranches occupy more than 1% of Wyoming’s total acreage. Swan Land Company 10 The extensive land is home to approximately 3,400 cows, 180 bulls and 130 saddle horses. Nicole Terrill 10 A map of Pathfinder Ranches in Wyoming, compared to New York City and Rhode Island. Merrill Sherman / NY Post Design Explore More A foreign investor has quietly spent $65M for Malibu real estate charred by January's wildfires Megan Ellison has re-listed her NYC home for $3.65M — a week after her father was named the world's second richest person A 1,000-year-old castle near Milan has listed for $4.16M — centuries-old frescoes included The 1,431-square-mile assemblage, listed by Swan Land Company broker Scott Williams, is every cowboy’s dream. Its rolling foothills, high plains and broad river valleys cross four counties, according to listing materials. Altogether, this mega-ranch is collectively larger than the states of Delaware or Rhode Island. “A ranch like this is not built overnight, but takes generations of grit, vision and dedication to become something like Pathfinder,” Williams said in a statement shared with The Post. 10 Names carved into Independence Rock. Tom Hager The land is steeped in early American history. It dates back to the 1870s, the Times reported. Within Pathfinder’s confines sits Independence Rock, where westward pioneers carved their names throughout the 19th century, and the famous Oregon Trail and Pony Express paths crossed through. The property hosts 12 ranches total, according to listing materials, hosting approximately 3,400 cows, 180 bulls and 130 saddle horses. 10 The Great Pathfinder Lodge and several outbuildings. Swan Land Company 10 The ranch’s main residence spans more than 6,500 square feet. Swan Land Company 10 Large windows look out over rolling hills and Pathfinder Reservoir. Nathan Han 10 A small church. Swan Land Company Ranch houses, outbuildings, barns, a church and even a riding area are dispersed across the four swaths of land. Pathfinder’s residential center can be found on the 25,000-acre Two Crosses property, according to the Times. The Great Pathfinder Lodge spans 6,579 square feet, with a total of nine bedrooms and eight bathrooms. Most of the Pathfinder acreage was assembled between 2005 and 2018 in a partnership that has since narrowed down to just Sammons Enterprises, Pathfinder’s parent company, the Times reported. Ryan Lance, president of Pathfinder Ranches, told the outlet that the property no longer fits in the company’s portfolio. “Pathfinder represents a piece of our country’s pioneering spirit, productive and thoughtfully managed land, and a chance to make a real contribution to both modern ranching practices and conservation,” Lance said in a statement. 10 Reservoirs and rivers are scattered throughout the 916,076-acre grazing empire. 10 The sage-grouse, a ground-dwelling bird, is protected by a large conservation bank. Noppadol Paothong Natural resources are abundant here, including two reservoirs and 20 miles of the Sweetwater River. The land boasts the country’s first and largest habitat conservation bank for sage-grouse, a large and distinctive ground-dwelling bird in the American West. The strange-looking sage-grouse isn’t the only animal that enjoys Pathfinder’s stewardship. The bank also protects habitat of elk, bald and golden eagles, raptors and other classic wildlife of the American West. Filed under Commercial Real Estate luxury real estate residential real estate surreal estate wyoming 8/8/25 Read Next The church that housed NYC's infamous Limelight club stand... Most Commented Join the Conversation This story has 2.8K comments. 2.8K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Trending Now in Real Estate This story has been shared 3,729 times. 3,729 A foreign investor has quietly spent $65M for Malibu real estate charred by January's wildfires This story has been shared 1,949 times. 1,949 Megan Ellison has re-listed her NYC home for $3.65M -- a week after her father was named the world's second richest person This story has been shared 1,824 times. 1,824 A 1,000-year-old castle near Milan has listed for $4.16M -- centuries-old frescoes included Now on Page Six Kourtney Kardashian addresses ‘rumors’ she is expecting another baby with husband Travis Barker Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Jordon Hudson compares herself to Taylor Swift’s powerhouse publicist just months after boyfriend Bill Belichick’s CBS debacle See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Pathfinder Ranches occupy more than 1% of Wyoming's total acreage. Swan Land Company The extensive land is home to approximately 3,400 cows, 180 bulls and 130 saddle horses. Nicole Terrill A map of Pathfinder Ranches in Wyoming, compared to New York City and Rhode Island. Merrill Sherman / NY Post Design Names carved into Independence Rock. Tom Hager The Great Pathfinder Lodge and several outbuildings. Swan Land Company The ranch's main residence spans more than 6,500 square feet. Swan Land Company Large windows look out over rolling hills and Pathfinder Reservoir. Nathan Han A small church. Swan Land Company Reservoirs and rivers are scattered throughout the 916,076-acre grazing empire. The sage-grouse, a ground-dwelling bird, is protected by a large conservation bank. Noppadol Paothong You are viewing 1 of 10 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement