Grand juries weighing criminal charges for Tish James, Adam Schiff sources
US News Grand juries weighing criminal charges for Tish James, Adam Schiff: sources By Miranda Devine Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:51 p.m. ET Grand juries in Virginia and Maryland are weighing criminal indictments against New York Attorney General Letitia James and California Senator Adam Schiff over allegations they falsified property records to secure favorable loan terms, according to Department of Justice sources. On Thursday, Attorney General Pam Bondi appointed Ed Martin as a Special Attorney to lead the prosecution of James and Schiff for potential mortgage fraud, bank fraud and wire fraud, which carry jail terms of up to 30 years. “Attorney General Bondi and President Trump have given me a very serious mission,” says Martin, the former acting US Attorney for Washington, DC. New York Attorney General Letitia James and California Sen. Adam Schiff are being subject to possible criminal indictments in Virginia and Maryland. AP “I am committed to going where the facts take me. “For months DOJ and the FBI have been working on these two cases, it is my job to stick the landing.” More From Miranda Devine Miranda Devine: Biden abused his authority by turning FEMA into a far-left political machine Miranda Devine: Russiagate lies are being exposed — and everybody is watching, even the Dems Miranda Devine: Trump nailed the biggest trade deal in American history and proved everyone wrong – again! Special attorneys are empowered to conduct criminal proceedings, including grand jury investigations and prosecutions, usually in sensitive or high-profile cases, and can operate outside the district where the case is pending. James is alleged to have falsified information on mortgage applications, including listing her father as her husband to secure favorable loans, and misrepresenting her residency status on a Norfolk, Virginia, property. Schiff is accused of mortgage fraud, mail fraud, bank fraud and false statements to financial institutions for certifying a Maryland property as his primary residence while also claiming a California condominium as his main home for tax and mortgage purposes. Schiff is accused of allegedly falsifying property records to secure favorable loan terms. REUTERS The alleged occupancy misrepresentation on federally backed loans from 2003 to 2019 allowed him to benefit from lower interest rates and tax breaks meant for primary residences. Both James and Schiff deny any wrongdoing. “The allegations against Senator Schiff are transparently false, stale, and long debunked,” said former US Attorney Preet Bharara, who is representing Schiff in the case. “Now Ed Martin, the most brazenly partisan and politically compromised person possible for the task, has been picked to investigate a political adversary. The bias here is glaring,” Bharara said. “Any supposed investigation led by him would be the very definition of weaponization of the justice process.” Subpoenas have been issued, and witnesses have begun testifying in grand jury proceedings for Schiff in Maryland, and James in Virginia. The investigation into James’ real estate holdings began in April when Federal Housing Finance Agency Director Bill Pulte sent a criminal referral to the Justice Department. Pulte alleged James may have “falsified bank documents and property records to acquire government backed assistance and loans and more favorable loan terms” by claiming a Norfolk, Virginia, home she bought in 2023 would be her “principal residence” while acting as New York AG, and that a block of units she owned in Brooklyn was her second residence. “Bill Pulte and his FHFA team got this started with his criminal referral,” says Martin. “And as Tish James and Adam Schiff always say: ‘Nobody is above the law.’ ” Filed under adam schiff department of justice fbi letitia james pam bondi 8/8/25 Read Next Jim Lovell, commander of Apollo 13 moon mission, dead at 9... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 33,334 times. 33,334 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,216 times. 27,216 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 19,668 times. 19,668 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,353 times. 17,353 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers