Jim Lovell, commander of Apollo 13 moon mission, dead at 97
US News Jim Lovell, commander of Apollo 13 moon mission, dead at 97 By David Propper Published Aug. 8, 2025 Updated Aug. 8, 2025, 6:11 p.m. ET Trailblazing Apollo 13 commander James Lovell, whose “calm” heroics helped prevent a failed moon mission from turning into an unthinkable tragedy, has died. He was 97. Lovell died in Lake Forest, Illinois, NASA said in a statement as the astronaut was remembered for a life that “inspired millions” over the last several decades. 11 Jim Lovell, who once held the record for longest time in space, has died age 97. Bettmann Archive 11 The Apollo 13 crew traveling from the suiting station to the rocket site ahead of the mission. Bettmann Archive “Jim’s character and steadfast courage helped our nation reach the Moon and turned a potential tragedy into a success from which we learned an enormous amount,” said NASA Administrator Sean Duffy. Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' “We mourn his passing even as we celebrate his achievements.” Lovell, who was played by Tom Hanks in the 1995 movie “Apollo 13,” was one of NASA’s busiest astronauts during the agency’s first decade as it faced off against the Soviet Union in a high-stakes space race. Two of the four flights he was a part of became lasting symbols of American greatness and endurance. 11 Apollo 13 Commander Jim Lovell speaks to the press before the launch in 1970. AP The Apollo 8 crew, which included Lovell, Frank Borman and William Anders, became the first to leave the Earth’s orbit and reach and circle the moon, though they didn’t land on it. 11 Bill Clinton presents Lovell with the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in the Oval Office, July 26, 1995. Tom Hanks, left, also attended. Hanks portrayed Lovell in the 1995 movie “Apollo 13.” AP The extraordinary pale blue dot photo of Earth from the moon – the world’s first – and the crew’s reading from Genesis on Christmas Eve helped Americans get through a difficult 1968 — when the country was being rocked by the Vietnam War and social unrest. 11 Lovell was also on the crew of the Gemini 7 mission. Getty Images But the finest moment of Lovell’s incredible career came during the heart-pounding Apollo 13 flight that could’ve ended in disaster. 11 Jim Lovell (left) was also on the Apollo 8 mission in December 1968. 11 Capt. James Lovell was deeply affected by his near-death experience in space. BW Lovell was supposed to become just the fifth man to walk on the moon in 1970, but the crew’s service module that carried him dealt with an oxygen tank explosion some 200,000 miles from Earth. What came next was a tale of harrowing survival as the Lovell, Fred Haise and Jack Swigert were forced to all cram into a tight lunar module that was only supposed to fit two people for a couple days. Instead, the three astronauts were stranded there for four freezing days while surviving on a limited amount of water, oxygen and electricity. 11 Jim Lovell was recovered last from the module, pictured here waiting in the life raft in the Apollo 13 Recovery Area. Heritage Images via Getty Images 11 Jim Lovell (left) commanded the miraculous mission to the moon. They were able to eventually map out a way to slingshot their way back to Earth safely in a dramatic end to the aborted mission. “As commander of the Apollo 13 mission, his calm strength under pressure helped return the crew safely to Earth and demonstrated the quick thinking and innovation that informed future NASA missions,” Duffy said on Friday. Lovell said in a 1994 interview he wanted people to remember that the 1970 mission “in some sense it was very much a success.” 11 James Lovell undergoes his space suit checks hours before Apollo 13’s launch. NASA ”Not that we accomplished anything, but a success in that we demonstrated the capability of (NASA) personnel.”Lovell, who was a grandfather of 11 and a great-grandfather of nine, moved onto other ventures after he retired from NASA and the Navy in 1973. He led the Bay-Houston Towing Company and later worked in high-level executive positions at telecommunications companies, according to the New York Times. 11 This awe-inspiring photograph, Earthrise, was taken on the Apollo 8 mission which Lovell crewed. He also owned Lovell Communications, a consulting firm that helped corporations in the Chicago-area, and his family later owned a Lake Forest restaurant that displayed various memorabilia from his NASA days before closing in 2015, the Times reported. Lovell, a retired Navy captain, reached a new stratosphere of stardom when Hanks played him in the 1995 flick and uttered the famous phrase, “Houston, we have a problem.” In reality, Swigert first alerted NASA to the problem with Lovell then repeating a similar plea, “Houston, we’ve had a problem.” “We are enormously proud of his amazing life and career accomplishments, highlighted by his legendary leadership in pioneering human space flight,” his family said in a statement. “But, to all of us, he was Dad, Granddad, and the Leader of our family. Most importantly, he was our Hero. We will miss his unshakeable optimism, his sense of humor, and the way he made each of us feel we could do the impossible. He was truly one of a kind.” His wife predeceased him and he leaves behind four children. Filed under celebrity deaths nasa space program 8/8/25 Read Next Trump ousts Billy Long as IRS commissioner 2 months after ... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 33,334 times. 33,334 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,216 times. 27,216 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 19,668 times. 19,668 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,353 times. 17,353 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers Jim Lovell, who once held the record for longest time in space, has died age 97. Bettmann Archive The Apollo 13 crew traveling from the suiting station to the rocket site ahead of the mission. Bettmann Archive Apollo 13 Commander Jim Lovell speaks to the press before the launch in 1970. AP Bill Clinton presents Lovell with the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in the Oval Office, July 26, 1995. Tom Hanks, left, also attended. Hanks portrayed Lovell in the 1995 movie "Apollo 13." AP Lovell was also on the crew of the Gemini 7 mission. Getty Images Jim Lovell (left) was also on the Apollo 8 mission in December 1968. Capt. James Lovell was deeply affected by his near-death experience in space. BW Jim Lovell was recovered last from the module, pictured here waiting in the life raft in the Apollo 13 Recovery Area. Heritage Images via Getty Images Jim Lovell (left) commanded the miraculous mission to the moon. James Lovell undergoes his space suit checks hours before Apollo 13's launch. NASA This awe-inspiring photograph, Earthrise, was taken on the Apollo 8 mission which Lovell crewed. You are viewing 1 of 11 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement