DC appeals court slaps down judge who tried to hold Trump admin in contempt over migrant flights
Politics Judge who tried to hold Trump admin in contempt over migrant flights gets slapped down on appeal By Priscilla DeGregory Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:42 p.m. ET A panel of federal judges handed President Trump a major victory Friday, overturning a ruling that threatened to hold the administration in contempt over migrant flights to El Salvador earlier this year. The DC Circuit Court of Appeals vacated Chief US District Judge James Boasberg’s April 16 order finding “probable cause” to hold executive branch officials in criminal contempt for allegedly ignoring his March 15 order to stop deportation flights to Central America. 3 An appeals court Friday overturned Chief Judge James Boasberg’s April ruling, seeking to hold the Trump administration in contempt for migrant flights. Bloomberg via Getty Images In a split decision, appellate Judge George Katsas — a Trump appointee — said Boasberg’s decision represented an “improper use of the contempt power” since the US Supreme Court had already lifted Boasberg’s ban on the flights before the district judge ordered the feds to “purge their contempt.” Boasberg — a Barack Obama appointee — ordered Trump administration lawyers to either retake custody of the deported migrants so they could continue fighting their immigration case in the US or identify the officials who had defied his order. 3 Boasberg found there was “probable cause” to hold the Trump administration in contempt. REUTERS “The government correctly says it has been put to a Hobson’s choice: comply with an invalid order or name Executive Branch officials for the initiation of criminal contempt proceedings,” Katsas wrote. “The proffered choice impermissibly commingles civil and criminal contempt in a manner that results in substantial prejudice to the government. “Compounding this error, the district court’s order attempts to control the Executive Branch’s conduct of foreign affairs, an area in which a court’s power is at its lowest ebb,” Katsas added. Judge Cornelia Pillard, an Obama appointee, dissented, writing: “Our system of courts cannot long endure if disappointed litigants defy court orders with impunity rather than legally challenge them. That is why willful disobedience of a court order is punishable as criminal contempt.” Explore More Owner of Trump-themed Texas burger joint faces deportation for overstaying his visa Federal judge orders construction pause at Florida’s ‘Alligator Alcatraz’ migrant detention center Mahmoud Khalil admits that ‘pro-Palestine’ means hating peace and worshipping death Following the initial March 15 hearing, Boasberg ordered a 14-day stay on the Trump administration’s use of the 1798 Alien Enemies Act to ship suspected Venezuelan Tren de Aragua gang members to the notorious Terrorism Confinement Center (CECOT) in El Salvador. But hours after the hearing, two planes of deportees landed in the Central American country, with the Trump administration arguing the judge’s order had come after the planes left US airspace. 3 The flights landed in El Salvador hours after Boasberg’s block of the flights to the notorious Salvadoran prison. Getty Images The high court overturned the stay on April 7, with Boasberg issuing his scathing contempt threat nine days later. Attorney General Pam Bondi celebrated the appeals court’s ruling as a “major victory” in a statement on X Friday and backed President Trump’s choice to invoke the Alien Enemies Act to deport criminal migrants. The AG added that the ruling validated Justice Department arguments that Boasberg’s blast was “failed judicial overreach at its worst.” In July, the Trump administration said it had returned 252 Venezuelans who had been held at CECOT to their home country. Lee Gelernt of the American Civil Liberties Union, who led the case on behalf of the deportees, told The Post in a statement: “We disagree with the ruling and are considering all our options to challenge it.” Filed under appeals deportation donald trump el salvador illegal immigrants judges Tren de Aragua washington dc 8/8/25 Read Next Feds in DC arrest eight, seize stolen guns and drugs as Tr... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All An appeals court Friday overturned Chief Judge James Boasberg's April ruling, seeking to hold the Trump administration in contempt for migrant flights. Bloomberg via Getty Images Boasberg found there was "probable cause" to hold the Trump administration in contempt. REUTERS The flights landed in El Salvador hours after Boasberg's block of the flights to the notorious Salvadoran prison. Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement