Texas creep wearing only a diaper yells ‘goo goo ga ga’ at little girls and asks them to ‘change’ him like baby report
US News Texas creep wearing only a diaper yells ‘goo goo ga ga’ at little girls, asks them to ‘change’ him: report By Jennie Taer Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:41 p.m. ET A Texas creep who was seen wearing only a diaper yelled “goo goo ga ga” at two little girls riding their bikes and then asked them to “change” him like a baby, according to a report. Wesley Worl — who also had a pacifier dangling around his neck — jumped out of a truck and targeted the youngsters, one of whom was 11 years old, near Andy Woods Elementary School in Tyler, Texas, on July 29, according to CBS 19. “Goo goo ga ga, I need a diaper change,” yelled the 45-year-old, who reportedly has a 25-year history of committing such sick acts and has been banned from local parks, the outlet reported. 3 Wesley Worl allegedly yelled, “goo goo ga ga, I need a diaper change,” at a group of young girls. Smith County Jail The disturbing encounter spooked the little girls, who ran and hid in a nearby alley. They eventually spotted an adult they knew and ran toward them. One of the little girls, 11, told cops she had been shaking from fear. The pair were trembling so much that they could barely speak. They said they encountered a “scary guy,” who asked, “Will you change my diaper for me?”‘ Explore More The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' When the savior adult’s son drove by the scene, he was able to take down Worl’s license plate number, leading officers to the suspect. Worl has a history of targeting young girls dating back to 1999, according to CBS 19. He has been allegedly engaged in public indecency, wearing a diaper in public, and stalking his ex-girlfriend. 3 Worl is in handcuffs being escorted by two police officers. CBS19 3 Worl had allegedly been preying upon little girls for 25 years, according to local reports. CBS19 He was banned from visiting any parks in Tyler at one point, according to the local news outlet. Worl was collared on Aug. 7 at his workplace and charged with solicitation of a minor and criminal trespass, according to CBS 19. He is being held on $600,000 worth of bonds. Filed under crime pedophiles school texas 8/8/25 Read Next Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 33,334 times. 33,334 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,216 times. 27,216 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 19,668 times. 19,668 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,353 times. 17,353 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers Wesley Worl allegedly yelled, "goo goo ga ga, I need a diaper change," at a group of young girls. Smith County Jail Worl is in handcuffs being escorted by two police officers. CBS19 Worl had allegedly been preying upon little girls for 25 years, according to local reports. CBS19 You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement