Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7, why is he still being given a platform
Rikki Schlott US News Mahmoud Khalil keeps defending Hamas and excusing Oct. 7 — why is he being treated like a martyr? By Rikki Schlott Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:35 p.m. ET Some people are better off keeping their mouths shut. Such is the case with Mahmoud Khalil, who — when still a student arrested by ICE agents for his involvement in Columbia pro-Palestine protests — could be propped up as a martyr by the movement. Khalil was released from jail in June, and each time he’s encountered a microphone or a camera ever since, he’s made himself as unsympathetic as possible. First, it was refusing to condemn Hamas on CNN. Now, he’s gone as far as to seemingly justify October 7th in a New York Times interview. 5 Mahmoud Khalil made controversial statements about October 7th on a recent New York Times podcast. AP “To me, [October 7] was a desperate attempt to tell the world that Palestinians are here, that Palestinians are part of the equation,” Khalil said in a Tuesday podcast conversation with Times reporter Ezra Klein. Klein asked Khalil whether he saw Oct. 7’s design in the minds of Hamas as a provocation of war or “something that needed to happen to break the equilibrium” in the conflict between Israel and Palestine. “It’s more the latter — just to break the cycle, to break that Palestinians are not being heard,” Khalil, 30, answered. He also said that he found it “frightening that we had to reach this moment in the Palestinian struggle.” Had to? One can imagine it might also have been frightening for the 1,200 people murdered by Hamas that day. 5 Khalil appeared on Ezra Klein’s show and discussed his biography and the Israel-Palestine conflict. Getty Images for SXSW During the interview, Khalil also dismissed complaints about antisemitism on campus as primarily the result of “manufactured hysteria.” He offered a non-specific catch-all disclaimer that “targeting civilians is wrong,” but his comments made clear that Khalil feels a great deal of sympathy and understanding towards Hamas. Klein asked him clarifying questions and teased out his positions, but the host, who isn’t known to go lightly on his guests, offered only limp pushback. In fact, it was a remarkably fluffy interview, much of which centered around Khalil and his personal story and even his grandmother. This isn’t Khalil’s first time carrying water for Hamas in the mainstream media. 5 Khalil refused to condemn Hamas during a July CNN interview. CNN Last month on CNN, Khalil refused to condemn the internationally recognized terrorist organization when asked by anchor Pamela Brown, “Do you specifically condemn Hamas, a designated terrorist organization in the United States, not just for their actions on October 7?” Again, he pulled out his vague condemnation of killing “all civilians, full stop” — but not of Hamas. When pushed once more about “Hamas specifically,” he doubled down in his vagueness: “No, I am very clear with condemning all civilians. I’m very straight in my position in that part. “But it’s disingenuous to ask about condemning Hamas while Palestinians are the ones being starved now by Israel.” He went on to call the question “selective outrage of condemnation” and to claim it is “disingenuous and absurd to ask such questions.” 5 Khalil was arrested by ICE officers in March for allegedly posing a threat to US foreign policy interests. REUTERS Khalil, who was born in Syria to Palestinian parents, was arrested by ICE officers in March at his Columbia residence and targeted for deportation on the charge of Secretary of State Marco Rubio that campus protests posed a threat to US foreign policy interests. In June, a federal judge ordered Khalil be released on bail while his immigration case is pending. There was widespread outrage about his situation — even from Jewish organizations — during his 100-plus days behind bars. But now that he’s out and on his media tour, he finally has the chance to show his true colors. Turns out they’re not very pretty. “We cannot ask Palestinians to be perfect victims after 75 years of dispossession,” Khalil argued to Klein. 5 Lawmakers like Ilhan Omar have embraced Khalil as a symbol of the pro-Palestine movement. REUTERS That statement would be fair enough… if not made in the context of a conversation about October 7th. A downtrodden people shouldn’t be expected to act “perfectly,” but not murdering innocent civilians at a music festival is a pretty low bar. Students for Justice in Palestine made Khalil the face of their movement. Where are the statements distancing themselves from this sort of rhetoric? Or from Ilhan Omar, who so passionately embraced him as a hero? The silence is deafening. So too are Khalil’s loud, proud, and consistent efforts to justify Hamas’s most horrific actions. Filed under columbia university Mahmoud Khalil palestine 8/8/25 Read Next Couple in car romp die when shaking vehicle plummets hundr... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 87,910 times. 87,910 Police ID deranged shooter who killed cop after unleashing barrage of bullets on CDC, Emory University campus This story has been shared 60,810 times. 60,810 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 17,481 times. 17,481 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 17,139 times. 17,139 Teen gunman opens fire in crowded NYC tourist hotspot, shooting 3 in chaotic scene Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.8K comments. 2.8K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Kourtney Kardashian addresses ‘rumors’ she is expecting another baby with husband Travis Barker Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Jordon Hudson compares herself to Taylor Swift’s powerhouse publicist just months after boyfriend Bill Belichick’s CBS debacle See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers Mahmoud Khalil made controversial statements about October 7th on a recent New York Times podcast. AP Khalil appeared on Ezra Klein's show and discussed his biography and the Israel-Palestine conflict. Getty Images for SXSW Khalil refused to condemn Hamas during a July CNN interview. CNN Khalil was arrested by ICE officers in March for allegedly posing a threat to US foreign policy interests. REUTERS Lawmakers like Ilhan Omar have embraced Khalil as a symbol of the pro-Palestine movement. REUTERS You are viewing 1 of 5 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement