How Colts rookie Riley Leonard fared in preseason debut as QB battle heats up
NFL How Colts rookie Riley Leonard fared in preseason debut as QB battle heats up By Ryan Giancola Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:23 p.m. ET It was a rollercoaster night for all of the Colts’ quarterbacks — including rookie sixth-round pick Riley Leonard. The Notre Dame product got his first taste of NFL action Thursday in the Colts’ 24-16 preseason loss to the Ravens, entering the exhibition game after Anthony Richardson exited early due to a dislocated pinkie finger and Daniel Jones delivered an up-and-down performance in the first half. Leonard completed 12 of his 24 passes for 92 yards while throwing one interception. He also scrambled for 34 yards and led the Colts to a touchdown on his second possession. 5 Riley Leonard taking his first snaps in the NFL. Getty Images Give Riley Leonard room to run and he will take it — and then some. The rookie QB out of Notre Dame led a touchdown drive on the second possession of his preseason NFL career. pic.twitter.com/JePupSa1g6 — Tyler Horka (@tbhorka) August 8, 2025 With the Colts set to resume preseason action next Saturday against the Packers, it remains to be seen how coach Shane Steichen will divvy the workload following the injury to Richardson. Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer “He’s doing all right,” Steichen said, according to the Colts’ website. “It’s a dislocation. They popped it back in. Let’s see how it goes.” 5 Riley Leonard during training camp in July 2025. Getty Images Richardson, the Colts’ fourth overall pick in 2023, is fighting for the starting job against Jones, the ex-Giant who signed a one-year deal with the team in free agency. The quarterback, 23, sustained the injury just eight minutes into the first half after taking a hit from Ravens linebacker David Ojabo. 5 Anthony Richardson before suffering a dislocated pinky. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect 5 Anthony Richardson lies on the ground after taking a sack against the Ravens on Aug. 7, 2025. Getty Images “He hit me, then I was trying to make sure I had the ball, and I just looked down, I see my finger in a different direction. I’m like, maybe I’m tripping. I looked at it again, and it was definitely like that. So I’m like, I need to get this thing popped back in place and I’m good,” Richardson said afterward. Enter Jones, 28, who went 10 for 21 for 144 yards sans an interception or touchdown. 5 Daniel Jones captains his team in the second quarter. AP “Some good, some bad. Caught a rhythm there I think at points, and we were moving the ball well, executing, but a couple things here and there kept us from getting in the end zone,” Jones said of his showing Thursday. The Colts received an encouraging update Friday when ESPN reported Richardson could be back at practice as soon as Saturday. The X-rays he had taken on Thursday at halftime were negative. The Colts and their yet-to-be-named QB1 will face the Dolphins in Week 1 on Sept. 7. Filed under anthony richardson Daniel Jones indianapolis colts 8/8/25 Read Next Colts get update after QB’s preseason injury scare Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Riley Leonard taking his first snaps in the NFL. Getty Images Riley Leonard during training camp in July 2025. Getty Images Anthony Richardson before suffering a dislocated pinky. IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters Connect Anthony Richardson lies on the ground after taking a sack against the Ravens on Aug. 7, 2025. Getty Images Daniel Jones captains his team in the second quarter. AP You are viewing 1 of 5 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement