‘Modern Family’ star Aubrey Anderson-Emmons ‘surprised’ by the reaction over coming out as bisexual
TV ‘Modern Family’ star Aubrey Anderson-Emmons ‘surprised’ by the reaction over coming out as bisexual By Lauren Sarner Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:16 p.m. ET “Modern Family” star Aubrey Anderson-Emmons said she didn’t expect the reaction she got when she came out as bisexual in June. “I didn’t even mean to come out, I just thought the video was really fun. I just thought it was kind of funny. And I was like, ‘People will find this funny,’” said Anderson-Emmons, 18, who is known for playing Lily Tucker-Pritchett in the Emmy-winning hit sitcom, said in an interview with “Them” published on Friday. The former child star added, “And indeed they did, but I didn’t even think of it as, ‘Oh, I’m coming out to the world as bisexual, this [is a brave thing] that I’m doing,’ because it shouldn’t have to be something.” 10 Eric Stonestreet, Aubrey Anderson-Emmons and Jesse Tyler Ferguson on “Modern Family.” ABC via Getty Images 10 Aubrey Anderson-Emmons at the premiere of “Freakier Friday” on July 22, 2025, in Los Angeles. The Hollywood Reporter via Getty Images The “Modern Family” star said that coming out “shouldn’t have to be a moment of bravery” because “it should just be normalized.” Explore More Jamie Lee Curtis gives blunt response to Pamela Anderson and Liam Neeson's romance Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain How Reba McEntire supported ex-stepson Brandon Blackstock in final months before his death Anderson-Emmons came out as bisexual in June. In the social media clip, posted via Threads on June 16, Anderson-Emmons was lip-syncing to a scene from the ABC show, in which Lily tells one of her dads, Mitchell (Jesse Tyler Ferguson), and grandmother Gloria ( Sofía Vergara) that she’s gay. 10 Sofia Vergara with Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in a 2011 episode of “Modern Family.” ABC In the clip from the show, Gloria tells Lily, “You are Vietnamese.” Lily replies, “No, I’m not, I’m gay, I’m gay!” Mitch then says, “Honey, no, you’re not gay. You are just confused!” In her social media post, the actress laughs at the camera as audio from the scene plays. 10 Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in her social media post coming out. aubreyandersonemmons/Instagram Anderson-Emmons wrote in text over the clip: “people keep joking so much abt me being gay when I literally am (I’m bi).” Her caption read, “happy pride month to all and to all a goodnight hehehe” with hashtags referencing “Modern Family,” pride month and bi pride, along with a rainbow emoji. Anderson-Emmons told the outlet that she didn’t even think of the social media post as “coming out,” because “everybody in my personal life already knows… I’m very much an open book about who I am. So it was just one of those things that I forgot to mention to the public. It was not intentional at all.” 10 Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in her “coming out” post. aubreyandersonemmons/Instagram She said she was shocked that it made headlines and got a big reaction. “It always surprises me when something goes a little bit viral that I do online, because I’ll just get one of my friend’s screenshots. A couple of my friends screenshotted the ‘bisexual coming out’ stories that were happening on Twitter and I was like, ‘What?’ I didn’t even notice how much coverage this whole bisexual thing was getting.” She said, “I did not think it would be like that at all.” 10 Ed O’Neill, Sarah Hyland, Sofia Vergara, Ariel Winter and Aubrey Emerson-Emmons in “Modern Family.” ABC 10 Aubrey Anderson-Emmons, Julie Bowen, Sarah Hyland and Sofia Vergara at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Jan. 29, 2012, in Los Angeles, Calif. FilmMagic 10 Aubrey Anderson-Emmons attends the 2025 American Music Awards. FilmMagic The former child star added, “I was very surprised. I thought that one clip would just go viral, and that was going to be it, but then other news [outlets] started posting about it, and I was like, ‘Whoa.’ But yeah, it was very unexpected and not plotted and schemed on at all.” “Modern Family” ran on ABC for 11 seasons, from 2009 to 2020. Lily’s dads were Mitchell and Cam (Eric Stonestreet). The show also starred Ed O’Neill, Julie Bowen, Ty Burrell, Sarah Hyland and Ariel Winter. 10 Eric Stonestreet, Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in “Modern Family.” ABC 10 Aubrey Anderson-Emmons attends the opening night of “Life Of Pi” on May 7, 2025, in Los Angeles, Calif. Getty Images Mitch and Cam’s marriage is one of the most celebrated same-sex unions on television. The show won two GLAAD Media Awards during its 12-year run. Anderson-Emmons, who recently released her first EP under the name Frances Anderson, also said she is “making this transition from acting to music.” She added, “I just moved to a completely new part of LA, I’m really enjoying that. I’ve been traveling a lot more. I just turned 18, so it’s kind of the start of adulthood. Obviously, I’m still a kid — being legally 18 doesn’t mean too much — but [I’m] starting to navigate adulthood and all that jazz.” The actress and singer also joked about her social media presence. “I feel like some people are like, ‘Stop posting about ‘Modern Family.’ Some people are like, ‘Only post about Modern Family.’ I feel like I do a mix of both,” she said. Filed under celebrity social media gay pride lgbtqia+ modern family 8/8/25 Read Next Selena Gomez reveals the roughest stage in her career: 'At... Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Eric Stonestreet, Aubrey Anderson-Emmons and Jesse Tyler Ferguson on "Modern Family." ABC via Getty Images Aubrey Anderson-Emmons at the premiere of "Freakier Friday" on July 22, 2025, in Los Angeles. The Hollywood Reporter via Getty Images Sofia Vergara with Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in a 2011 episode of "Modern Family." ABC Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in her social media post coming out. aubreyandersonemmons/Instagram Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in her "coming out" post. aubreyandersonemmons/Instagram Ed O'Neill, Sarah Hyland, Sofia Vergara, Ariel Winter and Aubrey Emerson-Emmons in "Modern Family." ABC Aubrey Anderson-Emmons, Julie Bowen, Sarah Hyland and Sofia Vergara at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Jan. 29, 2012, in Los Angeles, Calif. FilmMagic Aubrey Anderson-Emmons attends the 2025 American Music Awards. FilmMagic Eric Stonestreet, Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Aubrey Anderson-Emmons in "Modern Family." ABC Aubrey Anderson-Emmons attends the opening night of "Life Of Pi" on May 7, 2025, in Los Angeles, Calif. Getty Images You are viewing 1 of 10 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement