How Caitlin Clark is navigating ‘really frustrating days’ of injury-plagued season
WNBA How Caitlin Clark is navigating ‘really frustrating days’ of injury-plagued season By Jenna Lemoncelli Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:11 p.m. ET Fever superstar Caitlin Clark opened up about the “really frustrating days” navigating her first major injury. During the latest installment of the “Bird’s Eye View” podcast, Clark — who has been out since July 15 with a groin injury — spoke to host and retired four-time WNBA champ Sue Bird about how she’s dealing with the physical and mental challenges of her recovery. “There’s just been so much to manage. … Obviously, I feel like that’s been a huge part of this year,” said Clark, who has missed the last nine games with no concrete timetable for her return. “It’s just been so challenging being active and then playing four games, and then not — and then not feeling the best and then I’m frustrated about how hard I’ve worked in the offseason, and then all I do is rehab and continue through this process, and just trying to trust that the best I can. Caitlin tells Sue about the the challenges through this seasons injury process pic.twitter.com/kUUzmlgXRV — Rosalina Lee (@YoitsRosie) August 8, 2025 4 Fever star Caitlin Clark opens up on her groin injury during an appearance on the “Bird’s Eye View” podcast with WNBA legend Sue Bird on August 8, 2025. YouTube/Bird's Eye View “Obviously, there are really frustrating days and there are days where it’s a little bit easier and you’re very motivated and you’re close to the finish line of getting back and being back. “It’s not like I have a training camp to build up to play in my first game again. It’s like no, you’re tossed into game 30 — like, ‘Go try to play well.’ It’s hard, it really is.” Explore More Yankees legend tears Achilles in Yankees Old-Timers' Day nightmare NASCAR driver breaks collarbone in scary fall after Watkins Glen win Yankees legend proposes bold rule change to get starters to pitch longer Clark, 23, missed time for a groin injury in late June and returned to action in early July, only to be sidelined again after re-injuring her groin later that month. She recalled feeling confused when she began feeling pain from her groin injury. 4 Indiana Fever guard Caitlin Clark (22) looks around the defense of Seattle Storm forward Gabby Williams (5) during the first half of a WNBA basketball game Tuesday, June 24, 2025, in Seattle. AP “I think it has given me really good perspective on what a lot of my teammates and teams I’ve been a part of [and] what certain people have had to go through,” she said. “I’ve never been through anything like this. I think that’s probably why it’s been so hard, because I’ve never really dealt with injury. “And that’s probably been a challenge in itself because when I was first feeling pain, I didn’t understand it? I was like, ‘Am I just getting tight? Am I just getting old? Do I need to hit a stretch? Do I need to get rubbed out? Do I need some Icy Hot? What’s going on here?” 4 Fever guard Caitlin Clark (left) and guard Lexie Hull (10) celebrate against the Mercury in the first half of a WNBA game at PHX Arena on August 7, 2025. Mark J. Rebilas-Imagn Images The 2024 WNBA Rookie of the Year went on to explain why she’s thankful for this experience. “So I think it’s been a balance of understanding my body,” she said. “Whether it’s this year or whether it’s next year and even throughout my career, I’m going to be very thankful for this moment. I know this is going to help me understand my body better.” The Iowa legend missed the 2025 WNBA All-Star festivities in Indiana last month. 4 Fever injured guard Caitlin Clark (right) with head coach Stephanie White against the Mercury during an WNBA game at PHX Arena on August 7, 2025. Mark J. Rebilas-Imagn Images Clark also missed time in May due to a left quadriceps strain. In 13 games this season, Clark has averaged 16.5 points, 5.0 rebounds and 8.8 assists. The Fever (17-14) play Clark’s college rival, former LSU star Angel Reese, and the Sky (8-22) in Indianapolis on Saturday. Filed under caitlin clark indiana fever sue bird 8/8/25 Read Next Liberty' new assistant talks coaching journey, NBA influen... Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 36,465 times. 36,465 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,078 times. 33,078 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,438 times. 27,438 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Fever star Caitlin Clark opens up on her groin injury during an appearance on the "Bird's Eye View" podcast with WNBA legend Sue Bird on August 8, 2025. YouTube/Bird's Eye View Indiana Fever guard Caitlin Clark (22) looks around the defense of Seattle Storm forward Gabby Williams (5) during the first half of a WNBA basketball game Tuesday, June 24, 2025, in Seattle. AP Fever guard Caitlin Clark (left) and guard Lexie Hull (10) celebrate against the Mercury in the first half of a WNBA game at PHX Arena on August 7, 2025. Imagn Images Fever injured guard Caitlin Clark (right) with head coach Stephanie White against the Mercury during an WNBA game at PHX Arena on August 7, 2025. Mark J. Rebilas-Imagn Images You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement