Couple in car romp die when shaking vehicle plunges off remote cliff in Brazil
US News Couple in car romp die when shaking vehicle plummets hundreds of feet off remote cliff in Brazil By Natalie O'Neill Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:11 p.m. ET A couple having sex in a car turned fatal when rocking motion from the romp sent the vehicle plunging over a remote cliff in Brazil — sending their naked bodies hundreds of feet onto an embankment below. Adriana Ribeiro, 42, and her boyfriend Marcone Cardoso, 26, had parked at a scenic overlook in the small city of Venda Nova do Imigrante after a party Monday, according to CNN Brasil. Movement from inside the car led it to tip over the rock face and fall onto an area roughly 300 feet below, authorities told the outlet. 3 Adriana Ribeiro, 42, and her boyfriend Marcone Cardoso, 26, were having sex in a car when rocking motion from the romp sent the vehicle plunging over a remote cliff in Brazil. Bom Dia ES/Globo G1 3 The couple had parked the car at a scenic overlook the small city of Venda Nova do Imigrante after a party on Monday. Bom Dia ES/Globo G1 3 The vehicle fell over 1,000 feet over the cliff, where the naked body of Cardoso was found. Bom Dia ES/Globo G1 The vehicle then fell another 1,000 feet, where the naked body of Cardoso, the father of a 4-year-old, was found, according to the outlet. The body of Ribeiro, a mother of two, was later recovered by firefighters. “I saw the car’s engine very far away and the car fell, almost 150 meters from the accident,” said witness Tiago Amorim. “It was a shocking scene, the car was destroyed.” Filed under freak accidents 8/8/25 Read Next Feds in DC arrest eight, seize stolen guns and drugs as Tr... Trending Now in US News This story has been shared 80,439 times. 80,439 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 70,065 times. 70,065 Police identify deranged shooter who killed cop after unleashing barrage of bullets on CDC, Emory University campus This story has been shared 29,743 times. 29,743 Teen gunman opens fire in crowded NYC tourist hotspot, shooting 3 in chaotic scene This story has been shared 26,967 times. 26,967 Labubu craze could spell doom for the economy, expert warns Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.7K comments. 2.7K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Listen Now Now on Page Six Larsa Pippen blames ‘allergic reaction’ for her shocking face transformation Jordon Hudson compares herself to Taylor Swift’s powerhouse publicist just months after boyfriend Bill Belichick’s CBS debacle Malcolm-Jamal Warner’s mom claims son ‘did not suffer’ in fatal drowning: ‘This was his time’ See All Video Giants’ Malik Nabers managing lingering 'turf toe' | The Injury Report Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ Kristi Noem Shoots Puppy In Wild ‘South Park’ Season 27 Episode Taylor Kitsch Shocks ‘Today’s Jenna Bush Hager By Cursing On Air While Revealing He Once Had An “Accident” Right Before An Audition: “I S*** Myself” Malin Akerman Says Comparisons Between Her ‘The Hunting Wives’ Character’s Appearance and Melania Trump “Hit The Nail on the Head” See All Covers Today's Cover Front Cover Back Cover Flip for back cover Browse Covers Adriana Ribeiro, 42, and her boyfriend Marcone Cardoso, 26, were having sex in a car when rocking motion from the romp sent the vehicle plunging over a remote cliff in Brazil. Bom Dia ES/Globo G1 The couple had parked the car at a scenic overlook the small city of Venda Nova do Imigrante after a party on Monday. Bom Dia ES/Globo G1 The vehicle fell over 1,000 feet over the cliff, where the naked body of Cardoso was found. Bom Dia ES/Globo G1 You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement