Colts get positive Anthony Richardson injury news after preseason scare
NFL Colts get positive Anthony Richardson injury news after preseason scare By Andrew Crane Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:01 p.m. ET Despite the gruesome appearance of a dislocated pinkie finger and the optics of it being the latest worry in a career already full of them, Anthony Richardson appeared to escape with just a minor injury after all. The Colts quarterback could return to practice as soon as Saturday, ESPN reported, after X-rays Thursday night — during halftime of Indianapolis’ preseason opener against the Ravens — were negative and Richardson was initially considered day-to-day. The outlet added that Richardson even made some light throws on the sideline before getting ruled out, an early sign the No. 4 overall pick in 2023 is avoiding the worst. 4 Anthony Richardson gets sacked by David Ojabo during the Colts’ preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. AP Explore More Colts lose running back Salvon Ahmed for season on banned hip-drop tackle Anthony Richardson favored to be Colts’ starting quarterback Week 1 despite injury concern How Colts rookie Riley Leonard fared in preseason debut as QB battle heats up Richardson’s injury occurred midway through the opening quarter — on just the Colts’ second drive of the game — when Ravens linebacker David Ojabo raced toward Richardson unblocked from the left side of the defensive line and dropped the signal-caller for a sack. Colts head coach Shane Steichen told reporters postgame that Richardson’s pinkie finger “popped out,” and Indianapolis medical staff popped it back in, according to ESPN. 4 Anthony Richardson lays on the field after getting sacked during the Colts’ preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. Getty Images But it wasn’t worth the risk of having Richardson attempt to continue playing, with the 23-year-old in an ongoing competition alongside Daniel Jones for the starting job. 4 Anthony Richardson addresses reporters following the Colts’ preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. AP Richardson got the start in the opener, and Jones was supposed to start their second preseason game against the Cowboys on Aug. 16, but it’s unclear if Steichen’s plans will change after Jones entered Thursday and completed 10-of-21 passes during the Colts’ 24-16 loss. Before exiting, Richardson, who has started 15 games while collecting 21 total touchdowns and 13 interceptions across an up-and-down first two seasons, went 2-for-3 for 21 yards. He has also dealt with shoulder, back, foot and hip injuries, as well as a concussion, since joining the NFL. 4 Anthony Richardson attempts a throw during the Colts’ preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. Imagn Images “I feel like I was doing decent out there, besides that one play right there,” Richardson told reporters postgame, according to The Washington Post. “But everything happens for a reason. Still got next game, so I’m not too worried about it.” Jones, formerly the Giants’ $160 million quarterback who was released in the middle of last season, signed a one-year, $14 million deal with the Colts to compete for the starting job and revive his career after joining the Vikings’ practice squad late in 2024. Filed under anthony richardson indianapolis colts 8/8/25 Read Next How to watch Shedeur Sanders, Browns vs. Panthers live for... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard Anthony Richardson gets sacked by David Ojabo during the Colts' preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. AP Anthony Richardson lays on the field after getting sacked during the Colts' preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. Getty Images Anthony Richardson addresses reporters following the Colts' preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. AP Anthony Richardson attempts a throw during the Colts' preseason game against the Ravens on Aug. 7. Imagn Images You are viewing 1 of 4 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement