How to watch Shedeur Sanders, Browns vs. Panthers live for free in NFL Preseason
NFL How to watch Shedeur Sanders, Browns vs. Panthers live for free in NFL Preseason By Angela Tricarico Published Aug. 8, 2025, 3:00 p.m. ET New York Post may be compensated and/or receive an affiliate commission if you click or buy through our links. Featured pricing is subject to change. NFL preseason continues today with a matchup between the Cleveland Browns and the Carolina Panthers. While most teams use preseason as a chance for younger, newer players to make their case to stay on the active roster, Carolina’s head coach Dave Canales revealed that all of the team’s starters, including QB Bryce Young, will start today’s preseason opener, but they’ll likely be limited to eight-to-12 plays. The Browns are dealing with injuries to backup QBs Kenny Pickett and Dillon Gabriel, so 2025 draft pick Shedeur Sanders will start tonight’s game. Sanders, who was expected to be drafted in the first round before falling to the fifth, has not gotten in any reps with the first team yet. He’ll be splitting the QB job with Tyler Huntley, who the Browns signed on Aug. 5. Browns vs. Panthers: what to know When: Aug. 8, 7 p.m. ET Where: Bank of America Stadium (Charlotte, North Carolina) Channel: NFL Network Streaming: DIRECTV (try it free) Here’s everything you need to know to tune in to the preseason match between the Browns and Panthers from anywhere in the USA. Browns vs. Panthers time: The Browns vs. Panthers game begins tonight, Aug. 8, at 7 p.m. ET on NFL Network. How to watch Browns vs. Panthers for free: If you don’t have cable, you’ll need a live TV streaming service to stream the NFL preseason for free. One option we love is DIRECTV, which comes with five days free and starts at $49.99/month, with plenty of subscription options and genre packs that include NFL Network. DIRECTV Hulu + Live TV also includes NFL Network in its three-day free trial package and you can watch all out-of-market preseason matchups with NFL+. make every nfl game pay off Underdog Fantasy Underdog is where football fans become winners. Easy player picks No season-long commitments Real prizes every single night New users get up to $1,000 in bonus funds with their first deposit. It’s the perfect time to join the action. CLAIM YOUR UNDERDOG BONUS NOW Must be 18+ (19+ in AL, NE; 19+ in CO for some games, 21+ in AZ and MAZ) and present in a state where Underdog operates. Concerned with your play? Call 1-800-GABMLER or visit http://www.ncpgambling.org. NY: Call the 24/7 HOPEline at 1-877-8-HOPENY or text HOPENY (467369). New York Post receives revenue from affiliate and advertising partnerships for sharing this content and when you make a purchase. Why Trust Post Wanted by the New York Post This article was written by Angela Tricarico, Commerce Streaming Reporter for Post Wanted Shopping, Page Six, and New York Post’s streaming property, Decider. Angela keeps readers up to date with cord-cutter-friendly deals, and information on how to watch your favorite sports teams, TV shows, and movies on every streaming service. Not only does Angela test and compare the streaming services she writes about to ensure readers are getting the best prices, but she’s also a superfan specializing in the intersection of shopping, tech, sports, and pop culture. Prior to joining Decider and The New York Post in 2023, she wrote about streaming and consumer tech at Insider Reviews Filed under carolina panthers cleveland browns How to Watch shedeur sanders streaming 8/8/25 Read Next New footage shows ex-NFL star brandishing gun in Starbucks... Unlock full access to Post sports columnists and newsletters Drew Loftis The quarterback waiting game that can help you win in fantasy football Brian Lewis Rookie haul puts Nets GM under greater microscope with plenty of draft capital remaining Larry Brooks No excuse for Rangers to not name new captain — here's who it should be Already a subscriber? Log in. See All Jets Games Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. New York Jets at New York Giants Aug 16 2025 | Get Tickets Philadelphia Eagles at New York Jets Aug 22 2025 | Get Tickets Pittsburgh Steelers at New York Jets Sep 07 2025 | Get Tickets Buffalo Bills at New York Jets Sep 14 2025 | Get Tickets See All Games Sports Podcasts The best insights from the ultimate insiders Up in the Blue Seats - Rangers Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify The Show with Joel Sherman and Jon Heyman Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Blue Rush: NY Giants Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Gang’s All Here: A NY Jets Football Podcast Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify NY Got Game: Basketball Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Pinstripe Post - Yankees Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Against the Cage - Combat Sports Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Straight Outta Flushing - Mets Listen on Apple Podcasts Spotify Scoreboard