Brandon Blackstock was diagnosed with cancer after Kelly Clarkson divorce
Entertainment Brandon Blackstock was diagnosed with cancer after Kelly Clarkson divorce By Amanda Rubio Published Aug. 8, 2025, 2:49 p.m. ET Brandon Blackstock learned he had cancer following his divorce from Kelly Clarkson. The late talent manager, who died on Aug. 7 at age 48, “was diagnosed after the divorce,” a source told People. Blackstock and Clarkson, 43, married in 2013 and shared two children: daughter River, 11, and son Remington, 9. He was also father to two other children, Savannah and Seth Blackstock, from his first marriage to Melissa Ashworth. 6 Brandon Blackstock was diagnosed with cancer after his divorce from Kelly Clarkson. Instagram/@kellyclarkson Seven years into his and Clarkson’s marriage, the “Since U Been Gone” singer filed for divorce in 2020, citing irreconcilable differences. Their divorce was finalized in 2022, with Clarkson granted primary custody of the children. In a statement obtained by The Post, Blackstock’s family announced his passing following a yearslong private battle with cancer. Explore More Jamie Lee Curtis gives blunt response to Pamela Anderson and Liam Neeson's romance Howard Stern staffers prepping for show's demise, withholding best material as future remains uncertain How Reba McEntire supported ex-stepson Brandon Blackstock in final months before his death “It is with great sadness that we share the news that Brandon Blackstock has passed away,” the statement read. “Brandon bravely battled cancer for more than three years. 6 Brandon Blackstock with his ex-wife, Kelly Clarkson, and his four children. / SplashNews.com 6 Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson shared two children: daughter River, 11, and son Remington, 9. Instagram/@kellyclarkson “He passed away peacefully and was surrounded by family. We thank you for your thoughts and prayers and ask everyone to respect the family’s privacy during this very difficult time,” they concluded. Sources told TMZ that Blackstock had been battling melanoma, a serious form of skin cancer, and passed away Thursday morning. The day before Blackstock’s tragic death, Clarkson postponed the remaining August shows of her Las Vegas residency. 6 Kelly Clarkson with her and Brandon Blackstock’s two children, River and Remington. Getty Images She explained that Blackstock was experiencing health issues and she needed to focus on caring for their children. “Unfortunately, I need to postpone the remainder of the August Studio Session dates in Las Vegas,” the “Stronger” hitmaker wrote on her Instagram on Aug. 6. “While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father has been ill, and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them,” she revealed. 6 Kelly Clarkson postponed the remaining August shows of her Las Vegas residency the day before Brandon Blackstock died. PapCulture / BACKGRID Clarkson concluded, “I am sincerely sorry to everyone who bought tickets to the shows, and I so appreciate your grace, kindness and understanding.” In the wake of Blackstock’s passing, another source told People that Clarkson had “been devastated” for their children ever since her ex-husband received his diagnosis. “When she found out that he was sick, she remained protective of him for their sake,” the insider told the outlet. “Kelly has always tried to keep things classy. It became clear earlier this year that Brandon was not doing well. She’s been devastated for the kids.” 6 Kelly Clarkson and Brandon Blackstock pushing a stroller. Instagram/@kellyclarkson Though the ex-couple’s divorce was filled with drama, the source emphasized that the “American Idol” winner stayed focused on maintaining Blackstock’s relationship with their children. Describing the split and ensuing legal battle as “messy, painful and something [Clarkson] felt terrible about,” the source added, “The divorce was incredibly difficult for her… But she always wanted her kids to have the best relationship possible with their dad. She never spoke poorly about Brandon to the kids.” Sources would go on to confirm to Page Six that Blackstock had been secretly battling cancer, and that Clarkson had been juggling work while caring for her ex behind the scenes. “It’s been exhausting and so sad,” the source said. “Kelly has been working so hard, as well as looking after Brandon. Despite their difficult divorce, he’s still the man she loved and still her kids’ father.” Filed under brandon blackstock celebrity deaths celebrity divorces celebrity exes kelly clarkson 8/8/25 Read Next Is Sydney Sweeney secretly in 'Devil Wears Prada 2'? Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,871 times. 36,871 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,588 times. 33,588 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 27,728 times. 27,728 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 20,121 times. 20,121 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' Most Commented Join the conversation This story has 2.9K comments. 2.9K NY AG James subpoenaed by Justice Department over $454M civil fraud case against Trump This story has 2.5K comments. 2.5K The truth about Bill Clinton's cozy friendship with Jeffrey Epstein and his 'lovely girls' as House subpoenas testimony This story has 2.1K comments. 2.1K LI fire chief caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she's placed in ambulance: 'Shut the f--k up' Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 10 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 19 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 11 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Listen now Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Brandon Blackstock was diagnosed with cancer after his divorce from Kelly Clarkson. Instagram/@kellyclarkson Brandon Blackstock with his ex-wife, Kelly Clarkson, and his four children. / SplashNews.com Brandon Blackstock and Kelly Clarkson shared two children: daughter River, 11, and son Remington, 9. Instagram/@kellyclarkson Kelly Clarkson with her and Brandon Blackstock's two children, River and Remington. Getty Images Kelly Clarkson postponed the remaining August shows of her Las Vegas residency the day before Brandon Blackstock died. PapCulture / BACKGRID Kelly Clarkson and Brandon Blackstock pushing a stroller. Instagram/@kellyclarkson You are viewing 1 of 6 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement