Whataburger celebrates 75th anniversary with 75-cent burgers — but you’ll have to act fast
Food & Drink Whataburger celebrates 75th anniversary with 75-cent burgers — but you’ll have to act fast By Brooke Steinberg Published Aug. 8, 2025, 2:42 p.m. ET Whata deal! Whataburger, the beloved Texas-based burger chain, is celebrating its 75th anniversary this week — and they’re offering 75-cent burgers all day long on Friday, August 8th. Calling this year’s celebration “bigger, better and beefier than ever,” the Lone Star State fast foodery is discounting their #1, or classic Whataburger, between 11 a.m. and 8 p.m. local time. 3 Whataburger is celebrating its 75th anniversary this week by offering 75-cent burgers on Friday Aug. 8. Alex Hicks Jr./ Staff/ USA TODAY NETWORK / USA TODAY NETWORK via Imagn Images The offer can be redeemed exclusively online. “This anniversary is our way of saying thank you. Thank you for your trust, your loyalty, and for letting us be part of your table,” Whataburger President and CEO Debbie Stroud said in a written statement. Explore More This is the most attractive hobby a man can have, according to women OnlyFans star with two vaginas reveals her stunning 2025 earnings — and biggest tipper American tourists apparently have this puzzling tendency when traveling abroad, Europeans say — ‘Absolutely insane’ 3 “This anniversary is our way of saying thank you. Thank you for your trust, your loyalty, and for letting us be part of your table,” Whataburger President and CEO Debbie Stroud said in a news release. JHVEPhoto – stock.adobe.com The deal is limited to one redemption per customer — and you must be a member of the chain’s rewards program to qualify. The patty pusher is also debuting a collection of limited-edition Whataburger Collectible Cups — with special designs to mark the anniversary. The 32-ounce cups first rolled out earlier this week — with more to follow on August 12th and 19th. 3 The discounted burger can be redeemed exclusively online and through its app from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. local time. Rosemarie Mosteller – stock.adobe.com See Also Move over, Starbucks and Dunkin’ — this chain surprisingly has the cheapest coffee in America “Whataburger’s story has always been one about people – the fans who’ve made us part of their everyday moments, the Family Members who serve every meal with care and pride, and the communities that have welcomed us like family for 75 years,” Stroud said. “As we celebrate this milestone, we’re not just marking time – we’re honoring the memories, the traditions, and the quality experiences that keep folks coming back.” Whataburger willl have a special celebration in its hometown of Corpus Christi, Tex. on Fri, Aug. 8. The event will be held at Whataburger Field, where the Corpus Christi Hooks, the Houston Astros’ AA affiliate, will take on the Tulsa Drillers, the Los Angeles Dodgers’ AA affiliate. Fans are encouraged to cheer their team while wearing their best orange clothes — honoring the restaurant’s theming. The celebration will end with a “dazzling orange fireworks show” — and every guest will get a coupon for a free Honey Butter Chicken Biscuit, a longtime Whataburger menu favorite, as they leave. Filed under burgers fast food 8/8/25 Read Next You can double your weight loss by ditching this cancer-ca... Top Concerts Vividseats: Official Ticketing Partner of New York Post Get seats. Earn rewards. Experience it live. John Mayer 4 Shows | Get Tickets Chris Brown 31 Shows | Get Tickets Oasis 10 Shows | Get Tickets Thomas Rhett 19 Shows | Get Tickets Miranda Lambert 11 Shows | Get Tickets See More Shows Trending Now ON NYPOST.COM This story has been shared 36,151 times. 36,151 What to know about dangerous 'black tumor' cancer as Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband Brandon Blackstock dies at 48 This story has been shared 33,217 times. 33,217 The staggering amount NY could owe P'Nut the Squirrel's owners for execution of world's most famous pet This story has been shared 26,784 times. 26,784 Hospital fires fifteen nurses after 12-year-old patient’s suicide This story has been shared 19,315 times. 19,315 Safe injection site brings daytime public sex to East Harlem: 'Getting my own porno show' This story has been shared 16,935 times. 16,935 Howard Stern psyched up as rumors swirl around show closure, 'bring it on': sources Now on Page Six Kate and Jon Gosselin’s son Collin pens heartbreaking message to estranged siblings after being ‘forced apart’ Sarah Michelle Gellar rocks red minidress in first photos from set of ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’ reboot Oscar-winning actress reveals Donald Trump asked her out on a date on the day she got divorced See All Now on Decider Gina Carano “Humbled And Grateful” After Lawsuit Settlement With Disney After Being Fired From ‘The Mandalorian’ See All Whataburger is celebrating its 75th anniversary this week by offering 75-cent burgers on Friday Aug. 8. Alex Hicks Jr./ Staff/ USA TODAY NETWORK / USA TODAY NETWORK via Imagn Images "This anniversary is our way of saying thank you. Thank you for your trust, your loyalty, and for letting us be part of your table," Whataburger President and CEO Debbie Stroud said in a news release. JHVEPhoto - stock.adobe.com The discounted burger can be redeemed exclusively online and through its app from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. local time. Rosemarie Mosteller - stock.adobe.com You are viewing 1 of 3 images Previous Image Next Image Advertisement