Sydney Sweeney's brother makes cheeky 'good jeans' joke after his Air Force promotion
Entertainment Sydney Sweeney's brother makes cheeky 'good jeans' joke after his Air Force promotion 'Euphoria' actress's brother references denim controversy in social media post celebrating career milestone By Stephanie Giang-Paunon Fox News Published August 8, 2025 6:00pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Sydney Sweeney's Baskin-Robbins ad sparks pushback The ‘Outnumbered’ panelists discuss an older Sydney Sweeney ad for Baskin-Robbins that’s sparking pushback after her controversial American Eagle campaign. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Sydney Sweeney and her brother both have "good jeans." Trent Sweeney, a newly promoted Air Force staff sergeant, played into the denim drama that’s engulfed his famous sister. This week, the 29-year-old proudly posted about his official promotion to staff sergeant on his Instagram story, complete with a cheeky caption aimed at the controversy. AMERICAN EAGLE FIRES BACK AT CRITICS AFTER SYDNEY SWEENEY CAMPAIGN SPARKS ONLINE BACKLASH Sydney Sweeney in an ad for American Eagle jeans (American Eagle Instagram) "It’s them good jeans," he shared with a certificate acknowledging his military promotion. Trent’s playful nod to the denim controversy drew laughs from supporters amid the outrage, and he posted another photo holding the certificate. Sydney Sweeney's brother Trent celebrates his Air Force promotion to staff sergeant with a playful reference to the denim controversy surrounding his famous sister. (Trent Sweeney/Instagram) "The family jeans, congrats on the promotion," a comment on his social media post said. Another fan wrote, "True American genes," while an Instagram comment said, "[S]Sgt with the good jeans." Trent Sweeney, Sydney Sweeney and Samayre Soto attend the European premiere of "Echo Valley." (Dave Benett/Getty Images for Apple TV+) APP USERS CLICK HERE TO VIEW POST View this post on Instagram A post shared by Trent E. Sweeney (@trent_sweeneyy) Meanwhile, Sweeney has scooped up some major attention — again! The "Euphoria" actress's Baskin-Robbins ad has resurfaced among her fans. The commercial featured Sweeney happily indulging in colorful ice cream flavors, and she served up nothing but sweet vibes. Sydney Sweeney's brother played on the drama surrounding his sister with a cheeky post about his promotion to staff sergeant on his Instagram story, writing, "It's them good jeans." (Dave Benett/Getty Images for Apple TV+) SYDNEY SWEENEY’S STEAMY DENIM AD SPARKS COMPARISON TO BROOKE SHIELDS’ CONTROVERSIAL ’80S CLASSIC Sweeney’s signature scoop included rainbow sorbet in a chocolate-dipped waffle cone with rainbow sprinkles and gummy bear minis. She additionally had a signature drink on the menu — sorbet with lemon lime soda topped with gummy bears. Fans were quick to respond to her resurfaced commercial for the ice cream company. "I love Sydney Sweeney and her good jeans and I love Baskin-Robbins ice cream. You’re the best Sydney," one comment on X said. "Love me some Baskin-Robbins! I will wear my new AE jeans when I purchase my Sydney Sweeney sweets," another comment said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Sweeney's American Eagle campaign received backlash on social media, some suggesting it had shades of "eugenics" and "White supremacy." (Emma McIntyre/Getty Images) One X user added, "Let’s see who’s gonna get triggered by Sydney Sweeney’s new Baskin-Robbins ad." Baskin-Robbins released its collaboration with Sweeney in June. Sweeney's ice cream ad resurfaced after "The White Lotus" star broke the internet last month with an American Eagle Jeans ad. LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS American Eagle defended Sweeney's ad, releasing a statement on social media that said, "’Sydney Sweeney Has Great Jeans’ is and always was about the jeans. Her jeans. Her story. We’ll continue to celebrate how everyone wears their AE jeans with confidence, their way. Great jeans look good on everyone." (American Eagle Instagram) The commercial sparked backlash after she spoke about genes being "passed down from parents to offspring, often determining traits like hair color, personality and even eye color." "My jeans are blue," she added as the camera closed in on her eyes. The backlash to Sweeney's campaign faced the brute force of social media, some suggesting it had shades of "eugenics" and "White supremacy." However, others, including President Donald Trump, have come to the ad’s defense. APP USERS CLICK HERE TO VIEW POST View this post on Instagram A post shared by American Eagle (@americaneagle) "Sydney Sweeney, a registered Republican, has the ‘HOTTEST’ ad out there. It’s for American Eagle, and the jeans are ‘flying off the shelves,’" Trump wrote on Truth Social. "The tide has seriously turned — Being WOKE is for losers." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER American Eagle released a statement on its social media Aug. 1, saying, "’Sydney Sweeney Has Great Jeans’ is and always was about the jeans. Her jeans. Her story. We’ll continue to celebrate how everyone wears their AE jeans with confidence, their way. Great jeans look good on everyone." Reps for the Sweeneys and Baskin-Robbins did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital’s request for comment. Stephanie Giang-Paunon is an Entertainment Writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to stephanie.giang@fox.com and on Twitter: @SGiangPaunon. Related Topics Entertainment Celebrity News TV Advertisements Trending Reba McEntire Reba McEntire considered late stepson Brandon Blackstock her 'blood' family before his death Gwyneth Paltrow Gwyneth Paltrow's daughter Apple Martin twins with famous mom in Hamptons bikini pics Crime Sharon Tate's ex fought Manson Family killers during heroic final moments: nephew Entertainment Newsletter Fox News Entertainment Newsletter: Kelly Clarkson’s ex-husband dead at 48, Dean Cain becomes ICE agent Entertainment Valerie Bertinelli leans on Betty White’s wisdom during life’s hardest moments Entertainment Sydney Sweeney confesses she wasn’t prepared for the emotional toll of fame amid political controversies Fox News Entertainment Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!