Fox News Politics Newsletter Walz under fire for axe murderer's release
Elections Newsletter Fox News Politics Newsletter: Walz under fire for axe murderer's release Welcome to the Fox News Politics newsletter, with the latest updates on the Trump administration, Capitol Hill and more Fox News politics content. By Fox News Staff Fox News Published August 8, 2025 5:51pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Welcome to the Fox News Politics newsletter, with the latest updates on the Trump administration, Capitol Hill and more Fox News politics content. Here's what's happening… -US appeals court blocks Trump contempt proceedings ordered by Boasberg -Inside NASA's fast-track plans for lunar nuclear power and new space stations to outpace global rivals -Ghislaine Maxwell prison transfer called 'highly unusual' by former federal prison official Republican leader shreds Tim Walz over Minnesota law that freed axe murderer EXCLUSIVE: The highest-ranking Minnesotan in Congress is blasting Gov. Tim Walz after a man who murdered his family as a teenager was released from prison. "Once again, Tim Walz proves why he is one of the worst governors in the country," House Majority Whip Tom Emmer, R-Minn., told Fox News Digital. "Not only do his soft-on-crime policies rob victims of the justice they deserve, but they also put the safety of every Minnesotan at risk. Being a self-proclaimed knucklehead doesn't excuse the chaos he has caused with his dangerous, far-left agenda." Emmer, as the GOP whip, is the No. 3 House Republican leader…READ MORE. House Majority Whip Tom Emmer and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz are seen in a split image. (REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz | AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes) White House CARTEL TAKEDOWN: Trump approves military action against Latin American cartels classified as terrorist organizations WASHINGTON, DC - JANUARY 20: President Donald Trump signs executive orders in the Oval Office. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images) (Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images) IN CUFFS: Kash Patel slams ‘corrupt’ sanctuary sheriff indicted for cannabis company extortion PARTY HOPPER: EXCLUSIVE: Duncan says Trump’s attacks justify his switch from GOP to Democratic Party: 'He's making my case for me' Former Republican Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan this week switch parties and became a Democrat. (Getty Images) 'REAL CONSEQUENCES': Noem, in Illinois, calls out Gov. Pritzker, Chicago's mayor over their handling of criminal illegal immigrants World Stage GLOBAL DEPORT LINKS: List of countries taking in illegal immigrant deportees grows with latest African partners SPECIAL RELATIONSHIP: US, UK 'disagree' on Gaza plan but 'share' same goal Vance says ahead of Lammy meeting Vice President JD Vance shakes hands with British Foreign Secretary David Lammy during a meeting at Chevening House on August 8, 2025 in Sevenoaks, England. (Suzanne Plunkett - WPA Pool/Getty Images) Capitol Hill PATRIOTISM UPROAR: Cuban-born congressman calls for 'Squad' member’s removal over ‘Guatemalan before American’ remark Reps. Carlos Gimenez, left, Delia Ramirez, right (Reuters; Getty) HEATED BATTLE: Former Democratic advisor says party's rhetoric on redistricting is getting 'a little out of control' Across America PACS UNDER PROBE: Texas AG investigates Beto O’Rourke PAC over support for quorum-breaking lawmakers JOB RUNNING: Party of 'crazies': Dems comply with outrageous redistricting stunts due to primary threats, state rep says Texas Democrats stood next to Illinois lawmakers on Aug. 4, 2025, to oppose redistricting measures proposed by Texas Republicans. (Fox News) ON THE RUN: Texas asks Illinois court to enforce arrest warrants for Democratic lawmakers BREAKING POINT: Chicago's budget shortfall puts spotlight on Mamdani's 'socialism' agenda for New York City Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr speaks to supporters at a campaign event on Nov. 7, 2022 in Kennesaw, Georgia. Carr is speaking out against progressive prosecutors who he says are hurting the communities they claim to be champions of. (Megan Varner/Getty Images) CASH CLASH: Georgia attorney general sues GOP opponent in governor's race over campaign financing PUBLIC SCHOOL CRISIS: Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker lambasted for new ‘disastrous policy’ requiring mental health screenings for kids Get the latest updates on the Trump administration and Congress, exclusive interviews and more on FoxNews.com. This article was written by Fox News staff. Related Topics Elections Newsletter More from Politics 5 hours ago Judge blocks Beto O'Rourke from funding Texas Dems who fled to stop GOP redistricting vote 7 hours ago Trump administration demands $1B settlement from UCLA over campus antisemitism claims 9 hours ago Fox News Politics Newsletter: Walz under fire for axe murderer's release 9 hours ago WATCH: GOP senators divided over whether Epstein documents are a distraction or a needed reckoning Fox News Politics Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!