Active shooter reported on campus of Emory University in Atlanta
Georgia Police officer killed after shooting near CDC headquarters, Emory University in Atlanta The Dekalb County officer's wife is pregnant with their third child, according to the department By Alexandra Koch , Sophia Compton , Louis Casiano Fox News Published August 8, 2025 5:28pm EDT | Updated August 8, 2025 9:39pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Law enforcement responds to 'active shooter' scene in Atlanta Emory University announced an "active shooter" on its Atlanta, Georgia, campus near Emory Point on Friday afternoon. (Credit: WAGA) NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! A police officer is dead, and the alleged gunman was killed, during a shooting Friday afternoon near the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) campus in Atlanta, as nearby Emory University told students to shelter in place and activated its emergency protocols. The DeKalb County Police Department identified the slain officer as 33-year-old David Rose, who was a husband and father of three, including one on the way. Just before 5 p.m. an unidentified man opened fire in front of the CDC campus, shooting multiple rounds into CDC buildings, according to Atlanta Police Chief Darin Schierbaum. Responding officers arrived to find a DeKalb County sheriff’s deputy critically wounded at the scene, Schierbaum said. As they moved in, they heard additional gunfire coming from a nearby CVS pharmacy. Police officers stand outside the emergency room at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, Friday. (AP Photo/Mike Stewart) SHOOTING AT TENNESSEE CLASS REUNION LEAVES 4 HOSPITALIZED Officers entered the store and found the shooter on the second floor, suffering from at least one gunshot wound. The gunman, whose identity has not yet been released, was later pronounced dead. Schierbaum said it wasn't clear if the wound came from authorities or if it was self-inflicted. A shelter in place order was lifted at about 6:30 p.m. However, 92 children remained sheltered in a daycare on the CDC campus, according to officials. "I want to commend the men and women of law enforcement from all across this region," Schierbaum said. "When this community needed them, no one shirked from the danger. Every officer, from multiple districts, responded and immediately moved to end this threat." Law enforcement responds to Emory University in Atlanta after an active shooter was reported Friday afternoon. (WAGA) SEVERAL PEOPLE INJURED IN SHOOTING INCIDENT AT GEORGIA SHOPPING MALL: POLICE CDC Director Susan Monarez said the agency was "heartbroken" over Friday's deadly events. "A courageous local law enforcement officer gave their life, and another was injured, after a gunman opened fire on at least four CDC buildings," she said in a statement. "DeKalb County police, CDC security, and Emory University responded immediately and decisively, helping to prevent further harm to our staff and community." The CDC was coordinating with local, state and federal authorities in their investigation, she said. On Wednesday, at least five soldiers were wounded after an Army sergeant who was recently arrested allegedly opened fire at Fort Stewart, near Savannah, Georgia. Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp posted to X thanking law enforcement for their swift action. "Twice this week, deranged criminals have targeted innocent Georgians. Each time, brave first responders rushed toward the danger to subdue the shooter and save lives, reminding us of just how crucial they are," Kemp wrote. "Marty, the girls, and I are thankful for all those who answer the call to serve and who protect their fellow Georgians," he added. "We ask that you join us in holding them in our prayers, along with those harmed this evening near the CDC Center." People comfort each other after a shooting near the campuses of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Emory University, Friday, in Atlanta. (Jenni Girtman/Atlanta Journal-Constitution via AP) ONE DEAD, ONE INJURED IN UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO CAMPUS SHOOTING AS MANHUNT CONTINUES Atlanta Mayor Andre Dickens remarked about the number of mass shootings that have occurred across the country in recent years. "Mass shootings, active shooter scenarios should not become the norm," Dickens said. "We have a number of individuals in this country that have access to high-powered weapons. And for individuals with those high-powered weapons that may have mental challenges or those individuals with high-powered weapons that are angry when they choose to use those weapons in a way that harms multiple people." "We have to put an end to that in our society," he added. A police officer arrives at the scene of a shooting near Emory University in Atlanta on Friday. (AP Photo/Mike Stewart) Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr wrote in an X post that he was "horrified" by the violent attack. "We’re horrified by the news out of Emory University and praying for the safety of the entire campus community," Carr wrote in a post. "We stand ready to assist our law enforcement partners with whatever they may need." The Georgia Bureau of Investigations (GBI) will lead the investigation. FBI Atlanta said it will offer assistance. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Emory University Police Department, DeKalb Police Department, FBI Atlanta, Emory University and CDC did not immediately respond to inquiries from Fox News Digital. Alexandra Koch is a Fox News Digital journalist who covers breaking news, with a focus on high-impact events that shape national conversation and influence government response. Related Topics Georgia Atlanta U.S. Police and Law Enforcement Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox Arrives Weekdays Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!