Grant Napear opens up about 2020 firing on 'The Clay Travis and Buck Sexton Show'
Sacramento Kings Grant Napear opens up about 2020 firing on 'The Clay Travis and Buck Sexton Show' Napear broadcasted for 26 years before he was fired By John Simmons OutKick Published August 8, 2025 4:56pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Fox News Flash top sports headlines for August 8 Fox News Flash top sports headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Grant Napear, the former broadcaster for the Sacramento Kings fired for a post that said "All Lives Matter," joined "The Clay Travis & Buck Sexton Show" on Friday for an interview. As Dan Zaksheske wrote on Thursday, Napear has finally landed another radio broadcasting job. He will host his own show on FOX Sports Radio station in Sacramento that will air on weekdays from 3-6 PST, starting on September 2nd. Before this, he broadcast games for the Kings for 26 years, and was fired for this simple tweet he posted in 2020. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM File - Sacramento Kings announcer Grant Napear looks on during the game against the Houston Rockets on April 11, 2018 at Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, California. (Rocky Widner/NBAE via Getty Images) Napear joined Travis and Sexton’s show and talked about his experience of getting fired. He mentioned that many people in his circle and within the industry privately spoke with him and voiced their support. "Privately, people were outraged, they were blown away," Napear said. "I had some of the biggest names in the sportscasting industry reach out to me, talking about how they couldn’t believe it. They were telling me they were going to be nervous about saying something they shouldn’t or (that) it was going to be misconstrued." NBA FREE AGENT MALIK BEASLEY EVICTED FROM DETROIT HOME AMID RENT LAWSUITS AS FBI GAMBLING PROBE LOOMS: REPORT File - Sacramento Kings broadcasters Jerry Reynolds and Grant Napear after the game against the Houston Rockets at Golden 1 Center on April 11, 2018, in Sacramento, California. (Kelley L Cox/USA TODAY Sports) However, Napear said that he had no one come to his defense, because they were afraid of the repercussions of sticking up for someone who had said something deemed offensive. "But what was amazing is, every single one of them said, ‘I would love to speak up for you publicly, but I can’t.’ They were too afraid. That’s what it was like. People were too afraid to speak out and come to my defense," Napear said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP File - Sacramento Kings broadcaster Jerry Reynolds smiles with Grant Napear during the second quarter against the Houston Rockets at Golden 1 Center on April 11, 2018 in Sacramento, California. (Kelley L Cox/USA TODAY Sports) While that must have been disheartening (on top of the five-year wait to get a job back in the industry), justice has smiled on Napear and restored him back to doing what he loves. It’s good that this wrong - at least in part - has been rectified. Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter. Related Topics Sacramento Kings NBA Sports Fox News First Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!