Georgia officer killed while responding to shooting near CDC headquarters identified 'Committed to serving'
Atlanta Georgia officer killed while responding to shooting near CDC headquarters identified: 'Committed to serving' DeKalb County Police Officer David Rose, 33, was shot and killed while responding to the shooting Friday afternoon, the department said By Landon Mion Fox News Published August 9, 2025 12:30am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video BREAKING: Active shooter reported on campus of Emory University in Atlanta Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia reports active shooter situation on campus near Emory Point during Friday afternoon incident. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! The DeKalb County Police Department identified the officer killed Friday while responding to a gunman near the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, Officer David Rose, 33, was shot and killed while responding to the shooting at the CDC campus, which prompted a shelter-in-place order for nearby Emory University. The suspected gunman, who has not yet been identified, was also killed. Rose was rushed to Emory University Hospital on Clifton Road, where he died from his injuries. He began working for the police department last September, the agency said, and is survived by his pregnant wife and two children. POLICE OFFICER KILLED AFTER SHOOTING NEAR CDC HEADQUARTERS, EMORY UNIVERSITY IN ATLANTA The DeKalb County Police Department identified David Rose as the officer killed in a shooting outside the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) campus in Atlanta on Friday. (DeKalb County Police Department) "He was committed to serving the community," Interim Police Chief Greg Padrick said in a statement. "At this time we’re asking for the community’s prayers for his family, his friends, his loved ones and the entire DeKalb County Police Department family." Republican Gov. Brian Kemp said his family is "mourning today's tragic loss of Officer David Rose." "His service and memory will not be forgotten by a grateful state, and his loved ones and fellow @DeKalbCountyPD officers will remain in our hearts and prayers as they grieve his passing and this painful day," Kemp wrote on X. ARMY SECRETARY HAILS 'HEROISM' OF SOLDIERS WHO TACKLED ALLEGED FORT STEWART SHOOTER: 'ABSOLUTELY SAVED LIVES' The incident unfolded shortly before 5 p.m. when a man opened fire in front of the CDC campus, according to Atlanta Police Chief Darin Schierbaum. When officers responded to the location, they found Rose critically wounded and heard additional gunfire coming from a nearby CVS pharmacy. Officers entered the pharmacy and located the shooter on the second floor with at least one gunshot wound. Schierbaum said it was not clear if the wound came from police gunfire or if it was self-inflicted. "I want to commend the men and women of law enforcement from all across this region," Schierbaum said. "When this community needed them, no one shirked from the danger. Every officer, from multiple districts, responded and immediately moved to end this threat." Police officers stand outside the emergency room at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. (AP Photo/Mike Stewart) CDC Director Susan Monarez said the agency was "heartbroken" over Friday's deadly events. "A courageous local law enforcement officer gave their life, and another was injured, after a gunman opened fire on at least four CDC buildings," she said in a statement. "DeKalb County police, CDC security, and Emory University responded immediately and decisively, helping to prevent further harm to our staff and community." A police officer arrives at the scene of a shooting near Emory University in Atlanta. (AP Photo/Mike Stewart) Federal and state officials said they were horrified by the shooting and expressed appreciation for law enforcement's swift response. Among those sharing statements about the tragic incident was U.S. Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga. "I am mourning the tragic death of the officer who was killed in the line of duty today, and I am praying for the officer’s family and friends. Atlanta law enforcement saved countless lives, and we are grateful for their service," Warnock said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The Georgia Bureau of Investigations (GBI) is leading the investigation into the shooting and the FBI's Atlanta office said it will assist. Fox News' Alexandra Koch, Sophia Compton and Louis Casiano contributed to this report. Related Topics Atlanta Georgia U.S. Police and Law Enforcement Crime Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox Arrives Weekdays Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!