Texans' Jimmie Ward behind bars for second time in months due to bail violation
Houston Texans Texans' Jimmie Ward behind bars for second time in months due to bail violation Ward was arrested in June and charged with felony assault By Paulina Dedaj Fox News Published August 8, 2025 4:04pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Fox News Flash top sports headlines for August 8 Fox News Flash top sports headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Houston Texans safety Jimmie Ward is behind bars again after he reportedly violated a condition of his $30,000 bond, which stems from his felony assault arrest in June. Ward, 34, was arrested again on Thursday and booked into the Montgomery County Jail, according to online records. It marks his second time behind bars in nearly two months. Ward, 34, is facing a third-degree felony charge after being arrested for assault. (Montgomery County Jail) The NFL player’s attorney, Steve Jackson, told KPRC that he was booked after testing positive for alcohol – a violation of his bail conditions. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM "It’s a condition of bond, and there are certain conditions like you can’t drink," the attorney explained. "Jimmie believed it was for not getting intoxicated, like he could have a drink. There was no contact with the complainant. The court has a zero tolerance policy for drinking while on bond, unbeknownst to him." Jackson clarified that there were no new allegations leveled against Ward and the no contact order has not been violated. Ward was arrested in Texas on June 12 and charged with assault on a family member by impeding breathing or circulation, which is a third-degree felony. Jimmie Ward, #20 of the Houston Texans, lines up before the snap during an NFL football game against the Tennessee Titans at NRG Stadium on November 24, 2024, in Houston, Texas. (Cooper Neill/Getty Images) TEXANS' JIMMIE WARD 'WILL BE VINDICATED' FOLLOWING FELONY ASSAULT ARREST, ATTORNEY SAYS The Texans said in a statement at the time that they are aware of the reports surrounding Ward’s arrest and would not comment further as they "gather more information." Jackson previously told People that he believes Ward will be "vindicated" as they continue to investigate the allegations made against him. "We have been aware of the complaining witness for some time and her actions towards Jimmie Ward as well as another high profile sports figure," Jackson told the outlet. "It is sad that professional athletes and public figures have to endure things like this, but has seemingly become commonplace. But we will continue to thoroughly investigate this woman and her history, and believe that Jimmie will be vindicated." Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes (15) is tackled by Houston Texans safety Jimmie Ward (20) during the first half at GEHA Field at Arrowhead Stadium on Dec. 21, 2024. (Jay Biggerstaff-Imagn Images) CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Ward spent the majority of his career playing for the San Francisco 49ers. In nine seasons with the organization, he registered seven interceptions and 451 tackles across 106 games. He entered the 2023 offseason as a free agent before signing a two-year, $13 million deal. Ward signed a one-year contract extension worth $10.5 million before the start of last season. In two seasons with the Texans, Ward appeared in 20 games and registered three interceptions and 98 tackles. Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter. Paulina Dedaj is a Sports Reporter for Fox News Digital. Related Topics Houston Texans NFL Sports Crime Fox News First Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!