Chargers star Rashawn Slater's season-ending injury deals major blow to offensive line
Los Angeles Chargers Chargers star Rashawn Slater's season-ending injury deals major blow to offensive line Slater ruptured his patellar tendon during practice, the Chargers confirmed By Chantz Martin Fox News Published August 8, 2025 4:03pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Nick Wright on the Chargers and Herbert, Top 10 Teams, New Look Luka | FULL INTERVIEW | The Herd Nick Wright joins Danny Parkins to discuss the Los Angeles Chargers, Danny’s Top 10 teams and whether Luka Dončić’s new look can help the Los Angeles Lakers. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! The Los Angeles Chargers offensive line has been dealt a significant blow. All-Pro left tackle Rashawn Slater will be sidelined for the entire 2025 season with a ruptured patellar tendon, the team confirmed. Slater left Thursday's practice on the back of a medical cart. He was noticeably devastated during his trip back inside the team's complex, slamming his fist on the cart and tossing his helmet. The 26-year-old is expected to undergo surgery to repair the torn tendon. The Chargers moved Slater to injured reserve. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Los Angeles Chargers offensive tackle Rashawn Slater against the Arizona Cardinals at State Farm Stadium. (Mark J. Rebilas/Imagn Images) Slater was executing a block during a team drill when he fell to the ground. He quickly grabbed his left leg as he lay on the turf in noticeable pain. Slater could not stand on the leg, so his teammates and Chargers trainers helped the 315-pound lineman to his feet. CHARGERS' DENZEL PERRYMAN RELEASED FROM JAIL AFTER FIREARMS ARREST, INVESTIGATION STILL ONGOING Less than two weeks ago, Slater inked a record-breaking contract extension that tied him to the Chargers for the foreseeable future. The deal made Slater the NFL's highest-paid offensive lineman in average annual salary. The deal was valued at $113 million and includes $92 million in guarantees, ESPN reported. Rashawn Slater of the Los Angeles Chargers stands on the sideline during the national anthem before a game against the Chicago Bears at SoFi Stadium Oct. 29, 2023, in Inglewood, Calif. (Kevin Sabitus/Getty Images) "That's just something you don't want to see," Chargers outside linebacker Tuli Tuipulotu said. "Not only Rashawn, but any of our players." The Chargers bolstered their offensive line in each of the past two offseasons. The team drafted Joe Alt in the first round of 2024 and signed guard Mekhi Becton in March. Second-year Chargers head coach Jim Harbaugh recently said he was "bullish" about the offensive line heading into the 2025 season. Los Angeles Chargers offensive tackle Rashawn Slater against the Arizona Cardinals at State Farm Stadium. (Mark J. Rebilas/Imagn Images) Becton has been sidelined since July 28 with an unspecified injury. Alt could move to left tackle as the Chargers offensive line prepares for a major reshuffle. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Last season — with Slater’s presence — the Chargers offense committed just eight turnovers, a franchise-record low. The Chargers tied for the second-fewest offensive turnovers in a single season in NFL history. Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter. Chantz Martin is a sports writer for Fox News Digital. Related Topics Los Angeles Chargers NFL Health Sports Surgery Fox News First Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!