Germany Announces it is Suspending Military Exports 'That Could be Used in the Gaza Strip'
Germany Announces it is Suspending Military Exports ‘That Could be Used in the Gaza Strip’ 10 Getty Images Breitbart London 8 Aug 2025 BERLIN (AP) – Germany will not authorize any exports of military equipment that could be used in Gaza “until further notice,” Chancellor Friedrich Merz announced Friday, in a strikingly quick response by one of Israel’s strongest international backers to a decision by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Cabinet to take over Gaza City. The move by Germany, which has previously stopped short of tougher lines against Israel’s government taken by some of its European Union allies, appeared likely to further isolate Israel in the wake of the controversial military takeover plan that has been decried by the United Nations and supporters of Israeli hostages still held in Gaza. In a statement, Merz emphasized that Israel “has the right to defend itself against Hamas´ terror” and said that the release of Israeli hostages and purposeful negotiations toward a cease-fire in the 22-month conflict “are our top priority.” He said Hamas must not have a role in the future of Gaza. “The even harsher military action by the Israeli army in the Gaza Strip, approved by the Israeli Cabinet last night, makes it increasingly difficult for the German government to see how these goals will be achieved,” he added. “Under these circumstances, the German government will not authorize any exports of military equipment that could be used in the Gaza Strip until further notice.” The German government remains deeply concerned about the suffering of civilians in Gaza, he said, adding: “With the planned offensive, the Israeli government bears even greater responsibility than before for providing for their needs.” He called on Israel to allow comprehensive access for aid deliveries – including for U.N. organizations and other NGOs – and said Israel “must continue to comprehensively and sustainably address the humanitarian situation in Gaza.” Germany also called on Israel´s government “not to take any further steps toward annexing the West Bank.” It was not immediately clear which military equipment from Germany would be affected. Germany, with its history with the Holocaust, has been among the strongest Western backers of Israel – no matter which government is in power. Merz´s government did not join announcements by President Emmanuel Macron of key German ally France and Britain’s Keir Starmer that they plan to formally recognize a Palestinian state in September. Israel / Middle East London / Europe Friedrich Merz Gaza Germany Israel