Charlie Sheen's daughter Sami claims she was nearly sex trafficked
Charlie Sheen Charlie Sheen's daughter Sami claims she was nearly sex trafficked OnlyFans model shares how two men approached her and friend outside restaurant at midnight By Stephanie Giang-Paunon Fox News Published August 8, 2025 2:17pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Carol Alt says Denise Richards and Richards' husband introduced her to OnlyFans Carol Alt explained her "Paper Empire" co-star, Denise Richards, and her husband played a major role in her decision to launch an OnlyFans account. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Sami Sheen’s night out with friends nearly turned into a nightmare. The 21-year-old daughter of Denise Richards and Charlie Sheen claimed in a TikTok this week that she "almost got sex trafficked" while hanging out with friends in a restaurant parking lot late Monday night. "We didn’t leave until midnight … we were outside taking photos… we were there for five minutes," Sami explained. DENISE RICHARDS' HUSBAND FILES FOR DIVORCE, MONTHS AFTER SHE REVEALED HE HELPS RUN HER ONLYFANS ACCOUNT OnlyFans model Sami Sheen shared a harrowing encounter with two men in a parking lot, as she pulled out pepper spray to escape what she believes was a sex trafficking attempt. (Bravo) The OnlyFans model continued to share how the situation escalated quickly. "Out of nowhere, this man comes up to us asking for money," she said. After telling him that she didn't have any cash, she claimed that he didn’t back off and kept asking if she could send him money through apps like Zelle or Venmo. Another man appeared — and Sheen said her instincts immediately kicked in. "The second I saw this man, I had the worst feeling in my stomach … like ‘get the f--- away from him right now,"’ she remarked. She said that the man started asking if she spoke Spanish and saying other things she couldn’t understand, then reached into his back pocket. "I reach into my purse and pull out my pepper spray. I opened that b----, and he saw that …he started to pull a card out," Sami alleged. Without hesitation, she and her friend bolted for her vehicle. LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Sami Sheen has opened up in the past about her OnlyFans journey. (Sami Sheen/Instagram) DENISE RICHARDS ACCUSES ESTRANGED HUSBAND OF ABUSE AND DEATH THREATS IN RESTRAINING ORDER FILING "We immediately book it and get into my car … locked the doors." Later, she and her friend reviewed photos taken that night. She said she realized then that the man had been watching them the entire time. "He was just staring at us," she said, as she showed photos of the alleged individual in her TikTok. Sami’s warning to her followers: trust your gut. "I’m usually very aware of my surroundings and I did not notice this man," she admitted. "This is your sign to be even more aware…" (l-r) Sami Sheen, Denise Richards, Lola Sheen. (Charles Sykes/Bravo via Getty Images) Reps for Sami did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital’s request for comment. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER Her fans flooded the comments section, showing support. Sami Sheen is the daughter of Charlie Sheen and Denise Richards. (Kevin Mazur/WireImage) "ALWAYS trust your gut!" one comment read. Another person suggested that she should "check your car for a tracker." "Good for you for trusting your instincts! You are always right! Your pics prove it! Scary!" a fan reacted. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Stephanie Giang-Paunon is an Entertainment Writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to stephanie.giang@fox.com and on Twitter: @SGiangPaunon. Related Topics Charlie Sheen Denise Richards Entertainment Trending Entertainment Country star Jelly Roll confirms he's dropped 200 pounds and eyes another 50 more Reba McEntire Reba McEntire considered late stepson Brandon Blackstock her 'blood' family before his death Gwyneth Paltrow Gwyneth Paltrow's daughter Apple Martin twins with famous mom in Hamptons bikini pics Crime Sharon Tate's ex fought Manson Family killers during heroic final moments: nephew Entertainment Newsletter Fox News Entertainment Newsletter: Kelly Clarkson’s ex-husband dead at 48, Dean Cain becomes ICE agent Entertainment Valerie Bertinelli leans on Betty White’s wisdom during life’s hardest moments Fox News Entertainment Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!