Michelle Pfeiffer Blasts Bill Gates After Organic Produce Additive Approved By U.S. Health Officials
— Entertainment — Michelle Pfeiffer Blasts Bill Gates After Organic Produce Additive Approved By U.S. Health Officials The company Apeel denies being associated with the billionaire tech mogul. By Amanda Harding • Jul 14, 2025 DailyWire.com • Facebook X Mail WireImage Actress Michelle Pfeiffer called out a “very concerning” additive that’s been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be sprayed on organic produce, putting some of the blame on billionaire Bill Gates. “Apeel (an edible, plant-based coating designed to extend the shelf life of fresh fruits and vegetables) was just approved and now ‘organic’ produce is coated in something we cannot see or wash off,” the 67-year-old wrote on her Instagram Stories Thursday, per Page Six. “Very concerning,” she added. Her warning was attached to an original post that said, “Organic produce is no longer safe. Bill Gates’ Apeel just got approved for USDA-certified organic.” Pfeiffer also advised followers on which grocery stores would not sell produce treated with Apeel. The company Apeel was founded in 2012 by entrepreneur James Rogers and got a jump start thanks to a $100,000 grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, as The Daily Mail noted, but beyond that, the Gates family is not associated with the brand. The company received significant backing from venture capitalist Andreessen Horowitz. “Bill Gates has zero involvement or ownership in Apeel. We’re a team who value honesty and transparency, dedicated to enhancing food accessibility and sustainability,” a 2024 statement posted on the official Apeel Instagram said. A spokesperson for Apeel told Page Six, “It is both disappointing and concerning to see a public figure like Michelle Pfeiffer use her platform to spread disinformation about our company, our mission, and the work of our employees.” The statement continued, “Apeel Sciences remains committed to correcting the record and defending our work in the face of disinformation. We urge Ms. Pfeiffer and others to do their research before contributing to the spread of falsehoods on social media.” The company claims on its website that the coating, which helps prolong the shelf life of produce, is made from “non-GMO, responsibly-sourced plant oils” that “are distilled into purified mono- and diglycerides that we use to create an additional edible layer, or peel, on fresh produce to help keep moisture in and oxygen out. These naturally occurring, fatty acid-based ingredients are found in plant peels, regular dietary fats, and everyday foods, and they have a long history of safe consumption.” Create a free account to join the conversation! Start Commenting Already have an account? Log in Got a tip worth investigating? Your information could be the missing piece to an important story. Submit your tip today and make a difference. Submit Tip The Daily Wire > Read > Michelle Pfeiffer Blasts Bill Gates After Organic Produce Additive Approved By U.S. Health Officials