DEMS TO FORCE VOTES ON DISCLOSURE
— News — ‘Put Up Or Shut Up!’ Dems Suddenly Want Trump Admin To Disclose Epstein Secrets "Who are the rich & powerful being protected?" By Daniel Chaitin • Jul 13, 2025 DailyWire.com • Facebook X Mail Getty Images Democrats in Congress say they will introduce measures this coming week to press for the disclosure of the Jeffrey Epstein files as the Trump administration balks. As recently as 2023, when Democrats led the Senate, they blocked a GOP proposal to subpoena Epstein flight logs. But now they are leaning in as the “Make America Great Again” movement is in an uproar after the Department of Justice (DOJ) claimed it had no evidence that Epstein had a client list, blackmailed powerful people, or was murdered. “Why are the Epstein files still hidden? Who are the rich & powerful being protected?” asked Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA) in a post on X. “On Tuesday, I’m introducing an amendment to force a vote demanding the FULL Epstein files be released to the public. The Speaker must call a vote & put every Congress member on record.” Khanna, who hails from Silicon Valley, then ran a poll on X asking whether the House would allow a vote on Tuesday on his amendment. After several hours, the vast majority of the several thousand responses he received predicted the Rules committee would block it. Some in MAGA circles have questioned why former Presidents Barack Obama or Joe Biden or anyone else on the Left did not release the Epstein files in the past. “Why didn’t these Radical Left Lunatics release the Epstein Files? If there was ANYTHING in there that could have hurt the MAGA Movement, why didn’t they use it?” President Donald Trump asked in a post on Truth Social in which he defended Attorney General Pam Bondi. Khanna responded to this line of inquiry. “The criticism I am receiving is Biden should have done this. Fine,” he said. “But what is good now for the public? When we have a future Dem President, if Rs say let’s support Medicare for All or tax the wealthy, I wouldn’t call them out about the past. I’d say great. Let’s get it done!” Trump also suggested the Epstein files are yet another conspiracy from the Left. “Kash Patel, and the FBI, must be focused on investigating Voter Fraud, Political Corruption, ActBlue, The Rigged and Stolen Election of 2020, and arresting Thugs and Criminals, instead of spending month after month looking at nothing but the same old, Radical Left inspired Documents on Jeffrey Epstein,” he said. Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX) separately declared that he would introduce a measure seeking disclosure of secret Epstein files. “Either [Trump] and his acolytes fueled the rumors of the significance of these Epstein files to help his campaign, or something is there!” Veasey said. “That’s why on Monday, I’ll introduce a resolution demanding the Trump Administration release all files related to the Epstein case. Put up or Shut up!” Create a free account to join the conversation! Start Commenting Already have an account? Log in Got a tip worth investigating? Your information could be the missing piece to an important story. Submit your tip today and make a difference. Submit Tip The Daily Wire > Read > ‘Put Up Or Shut Up!’ Dems Suddenly Want Trump Admin To Disclose Epstein Secrets