Steve Moore Says GOP Has Perfect Response To Democrats’ Vote Against Trump’s BBB
Media Steve Moore Says GOP Has Perfect Response To Democrats’ Vote Against Trump’s BBB [Screenshot/Fox News/"Hannity"] Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 08, 2025 11:44 PM ET August 08, 2025 11:44 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: Economist Steve Moore said Friday on Fox News’ “Hannity” that Republicans should go on the “offensive” and say congressional Democrats “voted for a $4 trillion tax increase” by voting against President Donald Trump’s “Big, Beautiful Bill.” In May, Republicans narrowly passed the president’s reconciliation package in a 215-214-1 vote, as Republican Reps. Thomas Massie of Kentucky and Warren Davidson of Ohio joined Democrats in voting “no” on the bill. Discussing how the bill eventually reached Trump’s desk, Fox guest host Kellyanne Conway asked Moore what advice he had for lawmakers, noting that the bill typically doesn’t do “well” in polling as the “media trashes it.” (RELATED: Trump’s ‘Big Beautiful Bill’ May Not Be The Deficit Disaster Critics Claim — Here’s Why) “Well, first of all, tell people what’s in the bill, and they should really go in. I want Republicans to go on the offensive on this and say every single Democrat in Congress voted for a $4 trillion tax increase. That would have destroyed the American economy,” Moore said. “So, and you’re right, everything, no tax on tips, no tax on overtime. The fact that the companies can write off their capital.” WATCH: After the bill’s narrow passage in the House, Democrats continually pushed back on the package, with a handful of party lawmakers resorting to theatrical stunts. House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, for example, posted a photo of himself on Instagram on July 1 posing with a baseball bat and writing, “House Democrats will keep the pressure on Trump’s One Big Ugly Bill,” as his caption. Moore went on to highlight how the bill tackles a lot of issues for voters, including the “biggest expense of school choice in history.” “How about the fact that we got rid of the — remember the electric vehicle mandate? There are so many good things in this bill, people aren’t even aware of it. It’s the biggest expense of school choice in history,” Moore added. “Trump is probably the most pro-school choice president in American history. And when the school year starts, a lot of states in the next two weeks, a million kids this year, thanks in no small part to Donald Trump, will be able to go take their kids to the best schools that they can.” As the bill moved to the Senate, Republicans began to struggle as some members warned they would not allow the package to move forward unless key revisions were addressed. Sens. Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin were vocal about their concerns leading up to the vote, focusing on issues including the raising of the debt ceiling, Medicaid reforms and green energy subsidies from the Biden-era Inflation Reduction Act. After provisions were made, the bill passed the Senate on July 1 in a 51-50 vote, with Republican Sens. Thom Tillis of North Carolina, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Susan Collins of Maine joining Democrats. It reached Trump’s desk by the July 4 deadline after the House held a final overnight vote of 218-214. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : big beautiful bill democrats donald trump republicans Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn