Matt Towery Shares What Two Things Can Hurt Republicans Most In 2026
Media Matt Towery Shares What Two Things Can Hurt Republicans Most In 2026 (Screenshot/Fox News) Mariane Angela News Reporter August 08, 2025 10:45 PM ET August 08, 2025 10:45 PM ET Mariane Angela News Reporter Font Size: Pollster Matt Towery shared on Fox News Friday the biggest threats to Republicans heading into the 2026 elections. President Donald Trump keeps racking up victories, repeatedly turning setbacks into political comebacks. During an appearance on “The Ingraham Angle,” Towery discussed Trump’s momentum and said the GOP risks squandering its advantage if it loses focus. “I don’t really have a great fear. Obviously we have to see how the economy rolls out down the road, because you can never predict that. I think my greatest fear is that the Republicans become complacent and they also start fighting one another in these primaries that are going to come up this next year,” Towery said. Towery said that Trump’s polling strength remains solid when viewed across the aggregate, even stronger than individual negative surveys might suggest. He urged Republicans to rally behind Trump’s leadership rather than splinter in contentious primaries or drift from the economic and political agenda driving their recent gains. WATCH: “I think Donald Trump — to be honest with you, and let me make this quick note — Charlie, if you look at his numbers, if you take all the polls together, he’s hanging there in there pretty strong. There are some bad polls that come out for him, but if you look at the aggregate, Trump is pretty strong in the polls. I think he’s actually even stronger than the polls show,” Towery told guest host Charlie Hurt. “So Donald Trump is winning. I’m just hoping the Republicans will keep following his lead and not decide to drift off.” In July Towery said Trump’s real approval rating is far higher than the numbers reported by mainstream media. He said that while some polls put Trump’s support near 30%, the actual figure is much stronger. (RELATED: Newt Gingrich Predicts What Will Matter Most To Voters This Time Next Year) “You get a Gallup poll. Gallup used to be very good at doing presidential approval. They’re not anymore. They certainly are not with Trump. 38% approval? That’s a joke. So, really, when you look at polls, it’s almost like when you look at the old legacy media versus the new media and the conservative media,” Towery said. “It’s two different worlds. Trust me, Donald Trump’s at above 50% approval, majority approval in this country. Take it from me. I’m right.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : donald trump polls republicans Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts