Foreign Leaders Agree Trump Should Win Nobel Peace Prize
World Foreign Leaders Agree: Trump Should Win Nobel Peace Prize (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 08, 2025 10:07 PM ET August 08, 2025 10:07 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev agreed with Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan on Friday during peace deal talks, saying President Donald Trump should win the Nobel Peace Prize after bringing the two countries together. Trump on Friday announced what he said was the end of a three decade long conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia over territorial claims. During the peace deal signing, Pashinyan responded to a reporter by saying he believes Trump should not only win a Nobel Peace Prize, but that he would defend and promote his nomination. (RELATED: Trump, Putin To Meet In Alaska In Matter Of Days) Following Armenia’s prime minister, Aliyev proposed a joint appeal between the two leaders to the Nobel Committee to award Trump, asking, “who, if not President Trump?” “So maybe we agree with Prime Minister Pashinyan to send a joint appeal to the Nobel Committee to award President Trump with the Nobel Peace Prize because from the leaders of the countries which were at war for more than three decades, having this historic signature here, it really means a lot,” Aliyev said. WATCH: “This is a tangible result of President Trump’s leadership, and no one could have achieved that. So who, if not President Trump, deserves the Nobel Peace Prize?” Aliyev asked. The peace deal between Pashinyan and Aliyev came after the U.S. reportedly worked for months to bring the two leaders together, with both now set to deepen economic ties with the United States as well. The proposal for a Nobel Peace Prize nomination from the leaders on Friday follows Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s July nomination of Trump for the award. On July 7, Netanyahu met with Trump at the White House, thanking him for his leadership as the president has also navigated talks between Israel and the terrorist group Hamas in their ongoing conflict. Following through on his vow to bring peace, Trump has settled multiple world conflicts since January, including cease-fires between Thailand and Cambodia, Israel and Syria, and India and Pakistan. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : armenia azerbaijan donald trump nobel peace prize Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners Media 3 Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster Opinion 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas US 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 3 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him 6 Putin Reveals He's Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat 7 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly 8 Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump's Civil Rights