Ken Paxton Says ‘Beto Bribes’ No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas
US Ken Paxton Says ‘Beto Bribes’ No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) Mariane Angela News Reporter August 08, 2025 9:29 PM ET August 08, 2025 9:29 PM ET Mariane Angela News Reporter Font Size: Republican Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton scored a legal victory Friday, securing a court order to block what he called “Beto Bribes” — a fundraising operation that he says bankrolled Texas Democrats who fled the state to block legislative action. Paxton on Wednesday opened an investigation into Robert “Beto” O’Rourke’s group, Powered by People, over allegations it ran an illegal financial scheme to bribe Democrats who fled Texas to break quorum. Paxton took to social media to announce that the Texas district court granted Paxton a temporary restraining order against O’Rourke and Powered by People just hours after the state filed suit. “I just defeated Beto O’Rourke in court. We secured a major victory stopping runaway Democrats from taking ‘Beto Bribes’ and preventing deceptive fundraising,” Paxton wrote. The order halts all allegedly unlawful fundraising and spending while litigation proceeds. Paxton accused O’Rourke of running a “misleading financial-influence scheme” that used deceptive appeals to funnel donor money toward personal expenses for runaway Democrats rather than legitimate political activity. BREAKING: I just defeated Beto O’Rourke in court. We secured a major victory stopping runaway Democrats from taking “Beto Bribes” and preventing deceptive fundraising. They told me to “come and take it,” so I did. pic.twitter.com/PM3L4pNqqG — Attorney General Ken Paxton (@KenPaxtonTX) August 8, 2025 The lawsuit alleges O’Rourke and his group intentionally blurred the line between political contributions and personal support, directing donors to partisan fundraising platforms while intending to use the money for expenses prohibited under Texas law. (RELATED: Ken Paxton Describes Plan To Penalize Democrats Who Fled Texas To Dodge Redistricting Vote) Alongside the fundraising case, Paxton also filed a separate action with the Texas Supreme Court seeking to declare 13 absent Democrats’ seats vacant, arguing they abandoned their duties. He further opened an investigation into a Soros-funded group he says also underwrote the quorum break and is moving to enforce outstanding arrest warrants for the lawmakers in Illinois. Cry more, lib. You lost in court because you’re breaking the law and deceiving Texans. We absolutely will make an example out of law breakers. https://t.co/zDc15Q4ghe — Attorney General Ken Paxton (@KenPaxtonTX) August 8, 2025 “Any Democrat coward breaking the law by taking a Beto Bribe will be held accountable,” said Paxton. “Texas cannot be bought. I look forward to thoroughly reviewing all of the documents and communications obtained throughout this investigation. These jet-setting runaways have already lost public trust by abandoning our state, and Texans deserve to know if they received illegal bribes to do it.” Paxton wants to unseat Republican Sen. John Cornyn in a GOP primary that is already shaping up as one of the cycle’s most hard-fought contests. Paxton leads in early polls, but Cornyn has powerful backing from the Senate Republicans’ campaign arm and well-funded outside allies, while President Donald Trump has yet to take sides. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : beto orourke bribery ken paxton Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn