Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations
Politics Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter August 08, 2025 8:56 PM ET August 08, 2025 8:56 PM ET Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter Font Size: Attorney General Pam Bondi has named Ed Martin special attorney to investigate mortgage fraud allegations against Democratic New York Attorney General Letitia James and Democratic California Sen. Adam Schiff, according to a source familiar with the matter. The Federal Housing Agency (FHFA) referred James in April to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for allegedly falsifying mortgage documents to obtain more favorable loan terms. FHFA Director Bill Pulte likewise referred Schiff to the DOJ in May for allegedly falsifying documents to secure more favorable terms on a Maryland property. A spokesperson for Schiff told CNN in 2023 that his properties in California and Maryland were both claimed as primary residences “for loan purposes because they are both occupied throughout the year and to distinguish them from a vacation property.” WASHINGTON, DC – JUNE 17: U.S. Sen. Adam Schiff (D-CA) leaves a closed-door Senate-wide briefing on threats to lawmakers at the U.S. Capitol on June 17, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images) “The allegations against Senator Schiff are transparently false, stale, and long debunked,” Schiff’s attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement shared with the DCNF. “Now Ed Martin, the most brazenly partisan and politically compromised person possible for the task, has been picked to investigate a political adversary.” Bharara said that the bias is “glaring.” “Mr. Martin’s nomination to be U.S. Attorney of the District of Columbia was derailed not only by his partisanship and unfitness, but also by the hold Senator Schiff appropriately placed on the nomination,” he said. “Mr. Martin is a January 6-defending lawyer who has repeatedly pursued baseless and politically-motivated investigations to fulfill demands to investigate and prosecute perceived enemies. Any supposed investigation led by him would be the very definition of weaponization of the justice process.” Separately, James was hit with subpoenas in New York on Friday related to her civil fraud case against President Donald Trump and her case against the National Rifle Association, according to several reports. (RELATED: EXCLUSIVE: Ed Martin Teases Potential Target For His DOJ Weaponization Group’s Microscope) Special attorneys can conduct legal proceedings, such as grand jury proceedings, in districts where they do not reside. Trump previously named Martin as director of the DOJ’s Weaponization Working Group in May after pulling his nomination for U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia. James’ office did not immediately respond to a request for comment. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : attorney general letitia james ed martin pam bondi Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners Media 3 Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster Opinion 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas US 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 3 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him 6 Putin Reveals He's Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat 7 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly 8 Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump's Civil Rights