‘It’s Going To Be Surprising To Their Voters’ Mark Halperin Says Democrats Will Fall Short In Redistricting Battles
Media ‘It’s Going To Be Surprising To Their Voters’: Mark Halperin Says Democrats Will Fall Short In Redistricting Battles (Screenshot/Fox News) Mariane Angela News Reporter August 08, 2025 8:20 PM ET August 08, 2025 8:20 PM ET Mariane Angela News Reporter Font Size: Political analyst Mark Halperin predicted on Fox News Friday that Democrats will likely come up short in key redistricting fights, saying the party’s base might feel caught off guard when results fail to meet expectations. Texas Democratic lawmakers fled to Illinois and New York to block a special session on redistricting that could give Republicans up to five additional U.S. House seats. Speaking on the upcoming midterm cycle, Halperin said on “Special Report with Bret Baier” that Republicans hold more opportunities to redraw favorable maps than Democrats, especially in states like Florida, Missouri, Indiana, South Carolina, and New Hampshire. “It’s going to be surprising to their voters and their base that they’re trying to fire up for the midterms when they fall short, as they almost certainly will, maybe everywhere. California and New York are the ones people talk about the most,” Halperin told Bret Baier. Halperin said Democrats face steep legislative and procedural hurdles in those states. While Halperin said the fights give Democrats a platform to energize their base and go after Donald Trump, he questioned whether that strategy would translate into actual wins. (RELATED: CNN’s Harry Enten Says Texas Redistricting Could Make ‘Huge Difference’ For GOP In Midterms) “The legislative and other hoops they’re going to have to jump through to make it happen there are very high, very broad. So I don’t know if Democrats are gaming this out completely, but it does sure make them feel good to be able to rally and to attack Donald Trump,” Halperin said. Mid-decade redistricting, the practice of redrawing congressional lines between Census cycles, often sparks intense political fights. In 2003, Texas Republicans pushed through such a map despite a walkout by over 50 Democratic lawmakers, gaining five additional House seats in the 2004 elections. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : democrats mark halperin redistricting Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners Media 3 Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster Opinion 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas US 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 3 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him 6 Putin Reveals He's Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat 7 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly 8 Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump's Civil Rights