REPORT ‘Goo Goo Ga Ga’ Texas Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To ‘Change’ Him
US REPORT: ‘Goo Goo Ga Ga’: Texas Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To ‘Change’ Him Photo by Thinkstock/via Getty Images Daily Caller Staff Contributor August 08, 2025 7:41 PM ET August 08, 2025 7:41 PM ET Daily Caller Staff Contributor Font Size: Police reportedly arrested an East Texas man with a history of behavior toward minors Thursday after he wore a diaper and asked two young girls to “change” him, according to an arrest affidavit. Authorities charged Wesley Worl, 45, with criminal solicitation of a minor and criminal trespass for an incident from July 29, according to CBS 19. An 11-year-old said she and a friend were using their bikes in the vicinity of a park and an elementary school in Tyler, Texas, according to the affidavit. A man allegedly exited his vehicle in the school parking lot and approached the pair clad only in a diaper with a pacifier around his neck. “Goo goo ga ga, I need a diaper change,” he shouted at the girls, according to the affidavit obtained by the outlet. The girls were reportedly terrified by the encounter and sought refuge with a nearby adult. They claimed they met a “scary guy” who asked, “Will you change my diaper for me?” The adult’s son found a portion of the suspect’s vehicle’s license plate number, according to the affidavit. Law enforcement successfully tracked down and connected it to Worl, leading to his arrest for the alleged crimes. Police allegedly matched him to their suspect description. Worl has committed similar offenses against girls as far back as 1999 such as publicly wearing a diaper and behaving indecently in public, according to records obtained by CBS 19. He allegedly once had a ban from local parks due to his actions and stalked his ex-girlfriend. Worl reportedly has a sexual fetish tied to diaper-wearing and has been known as a sexual predator, especially toward girls between the ages of 8 and 12, according to the affidavit. Police arrested the accused at his place of work without issue and questioned him at the Tyler Police Department. Wesley Worl was being held on $600,000 bond in the Smith County Jail as of Friday. Tags : arrest diaper police texas Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn