‘Never Been Through Anything Like This’ Caitlin Clark Speaks On How She’s Dealing With Rough Injury
Editorial ‘Never Been Through Anything Like This’: Caitlin Clark Speaks On How She’s Dealing With Rough Injury BLOG (Photo by Steph Chambers/Getty Images) Andrew Powell Sports and Entertainment Blogger August 08, 2025 7:30 PM ET August 08, 2025 7:30 PM ET Andrew Powell Sports and Entertainment Blogger Font Size: It’s a hard knock life for Caitlin Clark right now. After a rookie season that saw her break record after record, the Indiana Fever superstar is most certainly going through a sophomore slump. Clark suffered a quad injury after only playing four contests. She went on to compete in five games prior to getting an injury to her groin that she ended up reaggravating following the next four. Out of a potential 31 contests, Clark has suited up in 13 of them, not being in action since July 15. Her shot was affected by her injury, shooting 7-for-49 from the three-point line in her past six games. Prior to that run, she put up an 11-for-20 figure in the first two contests after her quad injury return. (RELATED: Fever’s Sophie Cunningham Smacked With $1,500 Fine After Blasting WNBA Referees) Despite becoming the first player ever in WNBA history to tally one million votes, Clark missed the All-Star Game. “I think it has given me really good perspective on what a lot of my teammates and teams I’ve been a part of [and] what certain people have had to go through,” said Clark while speaking on the podcast of Sue Bird, per Fox News. “I’ve never been through anything like this. I think that’s probably why it’s been so hard because I’ve never really dealt with injury.” She continued. “And that’s probably been a challenge in itself because when I was first feeling pain, I didn’t understand it. I was like, ‘Am I just getting tight? Am I just getting old? Do I need to hit a stretch? Do I need to get rubbed out? Do I need some Icy Hot? What’s going on here? “So, I think it’s been a balance of understanding my body. Whether it’s this year or whether it’s next year and even throughout my career, I’m going to be very thankful for this moment. I know this is going to help me understand my body better.” Caitlin Clark appeared to be in pain after this play late in the fourth quarter. Clark returned to play last week after missing 5 games with a groin injury. pic.twitter.com/y78M3mDeCf — espnW (@espnW) July 16, 2025 To be honest, I lost interest in Caitlin Clark and the WNBA a long time ago … anymore dildos being thrown? Tags : caitlin clark indiana fever womens national basketball association Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners Media 3 Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster Opinion 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas US 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 3 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him 6 Putin Reveals He's Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat 7 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly 8 Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump's Civil Rights