Trump, Putin To Meet In Alaska In Matter Of Days
World Trump, Putin To Meet In Alaska In Matter Of Days (Photo by BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images) Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 08, 2025 6:51 PM ET August 08, 2025 6:51 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: President Donald Trump said Friday on Truth Social that he will meet Russian President Vladimir Putin next week in Alaska. Since Trump’s 2024 presidential campaign, the president has been calling for peace between Ukraine and Russia, vowing to bring an end to the war. In a post to Truth Social, Trump wrote that the highly anticipated meeting between the two leaders will be on Aug. 15 in the “Great State” of Alaska. (RELATED: Putin Reportedly Willing To End War If He Gets Eastern Ukraine) “The highly anticipated meeting between myself, as President of the United States of America, and President Vladimir Putin, of Russia, will take place next Friday, August 15, 2025, in the Great State of Alaska. Further details to follow. Thank you for your attention to this matter!” Trump wrote. Discussions of peace between Ukraine and Russia began circulating shortly after Trump entered office for his second term, as the death toll from the conflict has reportedly climbed to hundreds of thousands of lives. US President Donald Trump (R) attends a meeting with Russia’s President Vladimir Putin during the G20 summit in Osaka on June 28, 2019.(Photo by BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images) The president announced in May that negotiations would begin after a two-hour phone call with Putin. However, despite Trump’s push to end the war, Putin showed reluctance to have any discussions with Ukraine. By July, Trump announced a new plan to support Ukraine by sending the country offensive weapons and threatening to impose “severe” sanctions and tariffs against Russia, giving Putin 50 days to come to the table. Shortly after his announcement, Trump said on July 28 that he would drastically shorten the deadline from 50 days to “10 or 12 days” instead. During his reveal of Putin’s shortened deadline, Trump again vowed to impose sweeping secondary tariffs and sanctions against key Russian industries. In a last effort to bring the world leaders together, U.S. special envoy Steve Witkoff met with Putin on Wednesday, with the two reportedly speaking for three hours about potential peace talks. By early Friday, reports indicated that Putin said he would consider halting the war in exchange for Kyiv giving up the Russian-speaking Donbas region. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : alaska donald trump vladimir putin Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn