Cops Nab Suspected Montana Bar Killer After Manhunt
US Cops Nab Suspected Montana Bar Killer After Manhunt Image not from story (Photo by CHANDAN KHANNA/AFP via Getty Images) Mariane Angela News Reporter August 08, 2025 6:18 PM ET August 08, 2025 6:18 PM ET Mariane Angela News Reporter Font Size: After a weeklong manhunt, authorities on Friday captured the man accused of gunning down four people inside a Montana bar. Michael Paul Brown, 45, allegedly fired a rifle around 10:30 a.m. last Friday at The Owl Bar in Anaconda, a southwestern Montana city of about 9,000, according to the Montana Department of Justice. Republican Montana Gov. Greg Gianforte announced Friday that Brown was taken into custody in the mountains, ending a search that began Aug. 1. “The Anaconda shooter Michael Brown has been apprehended. Incredible response from law enforcement officers across Montana. Thank you to all partners for your commitment to the search,” Gianforte wrote. “May God continue to be with the families of the four victims still grieving their loss.” The Anaconda shooter Michael Brown has been apprehended. Incredible response from law enforcement officers across Montana. Thank you to all partners for your commitment to the search. May God continue to be with the families of the four victims still grieving their loss. — Governor Greg Gianforte (@GovGianforte) August 8, 2025 Brown allegedly walked into The Owl Bar that morning and opened fire, killing bartender Nancy Lauretta Kelley, 64, along with patrons Daniel Edwin Baillie, 59; David Allen Leach, 70; and Tony Wayne Palm, 74. (RELATED: Police Arrest Man Accused Of Shooting Driver Who Allegedly Plowed Into Crowd) Brown enlisted in the Army in 2001, served a tour in Iraq, and remained on active duty until 2005 before continuing his service with the Montana National Guard until 2009. His niece, Clare Boyle, told The Associated Press that he battled long-term mental health challenges. “This isn’t just a drunk/high man going wild,” Boyle said, as reported by AP. “It’s a sick man who doesn’t know who he is sometimes and frequently doesn’t know where or when he is either.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : arrest greg gianforte montana shooting Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn