Active Shooter Reportedly At Emory University’s Atlanta Campus
US Active Shooter Reportedly At Emory University’s Atlanta Campus (Photo by ELIJAH NOUVELAGE/AFP via Getty Images) Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 08, 2025 5:52 PM ET August 08, 2025 5:52 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: Emory University in Georgia issued active shooter alerts Friday on its X profile, urging students to shelter in place and avoid the area. A first alert from Emory’s Office of Critical Event Preparedness and Response X account urged students to “run, hide, fight” due to an active shooter on campus just after 4 p.m. local time. Around 5:30 p.m., the university posted a second alert from the school’s main X account, repeating that an active shooter was on its Atlanta campus at the Emory Point CVS Pharmacy. “Emory Emergency: Active shooter on Emory Atlanta Campus at Emory Point CVS. RUN, HIDE, FIGHT. Avoid the area. Shelter in place,” the post states. Emory Emergency: Active shooter on Emory Atlanta Campus at Emory Point CVS. RUN, HIDE, FIGHT. Avoid the area. Continue shelter in place. Police on scene. — Emory University (@EmoryUniversity) August 8, 2025 The shooting occurred at the university’s Atlanta campus near the main campus of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with the Atlanta Police Department posting that the scene was still “active” around 5:30 p.m. local time. Videos and photos circulating online show rounds of shots being heard in the distance in some of the footage. A picture posted on X by Atlanta News First’s Andy Pierrotti showed a CDC window hit by a bullet, appearing to be nearly shattered. (RELATED: Mall Of America Shooting Suspect Got Light Sentence From Soros DA — Now Faces Two New Murder Charges) Multiple local agencies and the FBI swarmed the campus, with officials lining the streets near the incident. According to Fox 5 News, one officer and one civilian were taken to the hospital, with their conditions unknown. Police cars at the scene were reportedly shot up during the incident and were leaking fluids, according to Fox 5 News’ SKYFOX. The outlet also reported a body, appearing to be covered by a sheet, lying in front of the CVS where the incident occurred. No other injuries or deaths had been confirmed as of Friday evening. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : active shooter atlanta emory university georgia Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts