Texas Reveals Unbelievable Locker Room Truly Showing How Much Money Is In College Football
Editorial Texas Reveals Unbelievable Locker Room Truly Showing How Much Money Is In College Football BLOG (Photo by Gregory Shamus/Getty Images) Andrew Powell Sports and Entertainment Blogger August 08, 2025 5:33 PM ET August 08, 2025 5:33 PM ET Andrew Powell Sports and Entertainment Blogger Font Size: You know what they say: “Everything is bigger in Texas” … even the money. During the era of former head coach Tom Herman, the Texas Longhorns‘ locker room being renovated was a huge deal. You had the photos of Herman destroying the old lockers with a sledgehammer, the price tag of $8,700 per locker, it all had Austin in a frenzy. But that was eight years ago, which has led the Longhorns to regenerate some of that hype with an updated locker room. And holy moly, what a glorious update they got. Rather than have their current head coach Steve Sarkisian demolish the old lockers like Herman did, they auctioned them off back in May which gave the green light for the renovation process to start. And get this: Every locker has a power reclining chair featured, which is by far the coolest thing of the locker. And to top it off, they have their own drawers and cabinets. (RELATED: Vanderbilt’s Diego Pavia Makes Asinine National Title Statement That Will Age Terribly This Season) But that’s not the only swagger that the lockers have — they’re also custom decorated for every player with their name and number, and to make it even more flashy, it includes their photo. Players also have cubbies for an extra pop. Just check out what NIL and oil money can get you: Home sweet home 🤘 pic.twitter.com/2WySSNDKzr — Texas Football (@TexasFootball) August 6, 2025 Team approved ☑️ pic.twitter.com/AVKR16lp8Q — Texas Football (@TexasFootball) August 6, 2025 https://t.co/ZTJGop1Bhr pic.twitter.com/kSxYWaCS1J — Texas Football (@TexasFootball) August 6, 2025 Hot damn! Now that’s a locker room! Tags : college football money texas longhorns Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People Editorial 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance Media 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 OPINION INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car 6 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 7 James Carville Takes Down Epstein Episode After Letter From Melania Trump's Attorney 8 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 9 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump