MAHA Official Reportedly Fired Following Messy Rollout Of mRNA Vaccine Policy Pivot
US MAHA Official Reportedly Fired Following Messy Rollout Of mRNA Vaccine Policy Pivot (Photo by JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images) Emily Kopp Investigative Reporter August 08, 2025 4:46 PM ET August 08, 2025 4:46 PM ET Emily Kopp Investigative Reporter Font Size: An official overseeing implementation of the Make America Healthy Again agenda at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has been fired following the awkward rollout of a pivot away from mRNA vaccines, according to the pharmaceutical trade publication Endpoints News. Gray Delany, head of MAHA implementation at HHS, has been let go, according to the report. Delany now describes himself as the “former director of MAHA implementation” at HHS on X. The action caps days of confusion over the Trump administration’s position on federal mRNA contracts and apparent tension between HHS and the White House on pharmaceutical policy. The messy announcement prompted Trump advisor Steve Bannon to call for a “whole new comms” at HHS, according to Endpoints. HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. announced on Aug. 5 that HHS was winding down the mRNA portfolio of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, the research and development arm of the pandemic response office. HHS said it was pivoting to other platforms it described as “evidence-based, ethically grounded solutions,” including whole-virus vaccines. The 22 stalled projects totaled nearly $500 million, HHS said. HHS didn’t respond to a request for comment. When asked about the pivot on Aug. 6, President Donald Trump signaled a desire for new approaches while praising Operation Warp Speed, the 2020 sprint in his first administration to develop vaccines against COVID-19. These investments included two mRNA vaccines manufactured by Moderna and Pfizer. Trump signaled there would be a meeting about the contracts on Aug. 7. “Operation Warp Speed, whether you’re a Republican or Democrat, is one of the most incredible things ever done in this country: the efficiency, the way it was done, the distribution, everything about it was amazing. But that was now a long time ago and we’re on to other things,” Trump said. “We’re looking for other answers for other problems, to other sicknesses and diseases.” While an initial press release referred to the cancelation of a contract with Moderna and the University of Texas Medical Branch on a H5N1 vaccine, an updated version of the release described a “restructuring” of that project and acknowledged it was jointly funded by the Pentagon, which is outside of Kennedy’s purview. Bannon told Endpoints that he texted HHS Principal Deputy Chief of Staff Stefanie Spear on Wednesday morning to say the announcement was “suboptimal.” “In Trump world … that means totally fu**ed up,” Bannon told Endpoints. “They need a whole new comms … Gray Delany is the only guy that, to me, had his act together.” “The mRNA vaccines, we learned this with COVID, don’t work for upper respiratory infections,” Kennedy said at a press conference on rural health on Thursday. RFK Jr. says mRNA vaccines may be helpful for some illnesses like cancer… But for illnesses like Covid and the Flu it does more harm than good. “The mRNA vaccines, don’t work against upper respiratory infections.” “There are two problems with them.” “One is they target a… pic.twitter.com/U7aOCTrkkS — MAHA Action (@MAHA_Action) August 7, 2025 Kennedy also said that mRNA vaccines have unpredictable effects in the body and didn’t control sufficiently for antigenic drift, or viral evolution. While critical of mRNA technology for infectious diseases, Kennedy said they could be helpful for cancer, according to an X post by MAHA Action, a Kennedy-aligned 501c4 organization. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : hhs maha moderna vaccine mrna pfizer rfk jr steve bannon Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts