Trump Ousts IRS Commissioner, Bessent Named Acting Head
Politics Trump Removes IRS Commissioner, Bessent Named Acting Head (Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images) Adam Pack Reporter August 08, 2025 4:46 PM ET August 08, 2025 4:46 PM ET Adam Pack Reporter Font Size: President Donald Trump removed Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Billy Long from his post Friday afternoon after less than two months on the job, according to a senior White House official. The official, who was not authorized to speak publicly, did not state the reason for Long’s dismissal nor specify when he would depart the agency. The president has asked Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent to serve as acting director of the federal bureau. (RELATED: Conservative Groups Urge Senate To Finally Confirm Trump’s IRS Chief, Root Out Obama-Era Deep Staters) Bessent will notably be the president’s sixth IRS lead of his second term. The New York Times was first to report Long’s dismissal. Shortly after reports of his removal from the IRS, Long announced on X that he will be nominated as the U.S. Ambassador to Iceland. WASHINGTON, DC – AUGUST 06: U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent looks on during an event with U.S. President Donald Trump and Apple CEO Tim Cook in the Oval Office of the White House on August 6, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) “It is a honor to serve my friend President Trump and I am excited to take on my new role as the ambassador to Iceland,” Long wrote on the social media platform. “I am thrilled to answer his call to service and deeply committed to advancing his bold agenda. Exciting times ahead!” Long is a former auctioneer who served in the House for more than a decade representing Missouri’s 7th Congressional District beginning in 2011. He sponsored legislation to abolish the IRS while serving in Congress. Long was confirmed by the Senate to lead the IRS during a party line vote of 53 to 44 on June 12. The president nominated him to serve as the federal bureau’s commissioner in December 2024, stating that the former Missouri congressman “is an extremely hard worker, [and] respected by all.” Long famously pretended to auction off the national debt during a speech on the House floor in 2011. An IRS spokesperson referred the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment to the Department of Treasury. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : billy long internal revenue service scott bessent Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn