Elite University System Shudders At Trump Settlement’s Price Tag
Education Elite University System Shudders At Trump Settlement’s Price Tag (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images) Jaryn Crouson Education Reporter August 08, 2025 4:45 PM ET August 08, 2025 4:45 PM ET Jaryn Crouson Education Reporter Font Size: The Trump administration proposed a settlement agreement to the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) that comes with a major price tag that the university fears would “completely devastate” it. The Trump administration recently revoked $584 million in federal funds from UCLA, claiming the university failed to address antisemitism on campus and continues to engage in racial discrimination in its admissions process. The Department of Justice (DOJ) has now reportedly proposed a $1 billion settlement agreement. The University of California (UC) system president James Milliken said the university is open to “good faith dialogue” with the administration to reach an agreement but that the DOJ’s proposal is infeasible. (EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Freezes $339 Million From UCLA Over Civil Rights Violations) “As a public university, we are stewards of taxpayer resources and a payment of this scale would completely devastate our country’s greatest public university system as well as inflict great harm on our students and all Californians,” Milliken wrote in an announcement. “Americans across this great nation rely on the vital work of UCLA and the UC system for technologies and medical therapies that save lives, grow the U.S. economy, and protect our national security.” The UC system and the DOJ did not respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. Pro-Palestinian students protest at an encampment on the campus of the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), in Los Angeles on April 26, 2024. (Photo by FREDERIC J. BROWN/AFP via Getty Images) UCLA was a hotspot for anti-Israel protests following the start of the Israel-Hamas War in 2023, during which administrators allegedly failed to shut down a “Jew Exclusion Zone” that required students to publicly denounce Israel to access parts of campus. Administrators were also caught privately cheering the pro-Palestinian demonstrators on. The university recently settled a lawsuit with students and a professor over the incident, paying more than $6 million. Following the Supreme Court’s 2023 ruling banning the use of affirmative action policies, UCLA publicized plans that racially gerrymander the student body despite the order. The university boasted its method of increasing personalized outreach to nonwhite students, hosting events for “underrepresented groups” and viewing applications in a “holistic” fashion instead of in separate segments. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : anti israel protesters antisemitism campus protests department of justice trump administration ucla university of california university of california los angeles Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn