Putin Reveals He’s Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat
Defense Putin Reportedly Willing To End War If He Gets Eastern Ukraine (Photo by MIKHAIL METZEL/POOL/AFP via Getty Images) Wallace White Defense Reporter August 08, 2025 4:29 PM ET August 08, 2025 4:29 PM ET Wallace White Defense Reporter Font Size: Russian President Vladimir Putin reportedly said he would halt his war in Ukraine if Kiev gave up vast swaths of its territory in the eastern part of the country, European and Ukrainian officials told The Wall Street Journal on Friday. Putin reportedly presented the pitch to U.S. special envoy Steve Witkoff on Wednesday, proposing that Ukraine cede the Russian-speaking Donbas region to Moscow in exchange for a halt to the fighting, according to the WSJ. President Donald Trump has been pursuing peace in the region since the beginning of his presidency, and the war is believed to have taken hundreds of thousands of lives on both sides since the conflict began in 2022. The Russian president reportedly told Witkoff that he would agree to cease hostilities in Ukraine if Kiev’s forces withdrew from the Donetsk region, officials briefed on the call told the WSJ. Russia currently occupies parts of Donetsk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions, while completely controlling the Luhansk region. (RELATED: Trump Set To Meet With Putin With Peace Deadline Looming) TOPSHOT – In this pool photograph distributed by the Russian state agency Sputnik, Russia’s President Vladimir Putin greets US Special Envoy Steve Witkoff prior to their talks in Moscow on August 6, 2025. (Photo by GAVRIIL GRIGOROV/POOL/AFP via Getty Images) It is unclear whether or not Putin would fully withdraw from the Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions in the Donbas as part of the deal, according to the WSJ. European officials also reportedly participated in three phone calls with the Trump administration throughout the week to discuss the proposal. Trump reportedly participated in the first call on Wednesday, alongside Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Vice President JD Vance and Witkoff, according to thw WSJ. The same participants, aside from the president, participated in a second phone call on Thursday. In a third Friday call, Witkoff reportedly told European officials that Putin’s proposal included two phases, according to the WSJ. In the first phase, Ukraine would withdraw its troops from Donetsk, freezing the frontlines until a more permanent proposal is hashed out by Trump, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Putin in the second phase. However, Ukraine would still seek a ceasefire before considering any proposal, a Ukrainian official told the WSJ. The State Department did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : defense donald trump foreign affairs russia steve witkoff ukraine vladimir putin Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn