Trump Brings Peace To Yet Another Corner Of The World
World Trump Brings Peace To Yet Another Corner Of The World (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images) Wallace White Defense Reporter August 08, 2025 4:19 PM ET August 08, 2025 4:19 PM ET Wallace White Defense Reporter Font Size: President Donald Trump announced a peace deal between Azerbaijan and Armenia on Friday, continuing his streak of resolving conflicts around the world. Trump announced the new pact alongside Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev and Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, ending a long-running conflict between the two neighboring nations over territorial claims. U.S. officials were reportedly working on the deal for months, and both nations are also set to deepen economic ties with the U.S. alongside the peace deal. “Thirty-five years they fought, and now they’re friends. And they’re going to be friends for a long time,” Trump said during the signing ceremony. “They suffered greatly for so many years … with this accord, we’ve finally succeeded in making peace.” (RELATED: Trump Set To Meet With Putin With Peace Deadline Looming) U.S. President Donald Trump waves from the roof of the West Wing of the White House as he takes a tour on August 05, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) The two nations have been fighting for the better part of three decades, mostly recently clashing in 2023 when Azerbaijan invaded the Armenian exclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. Negotiations to formally end the war were at an impasse, with Trump finally breaking the ice. The agreements also focus on greater economic cooperation between the two nations, as well as with the U.S., Trump said during the signing ceremony. Armenia and Azerbaijan also named a transit route after the president that allows people to come to and from Azerbaijan’s exclave of Nakhchivan. “I’m sure that Armenia and Azerbaijan will find courage and responsibility to reconcile,” Aliyev said during the ceremony. Trump has settled multiple world conflicts since he came into office in January, including brokering ceasefires between Thailand and Cambodia, Israel and Syria, India and Pakistan and Rwanda with the Democratic Republic of Congo. “As president, my highest aspiration is to bring peace and success to the world,” Trump added during the signing. The Azerbaijan Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Armenia Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : armenia azerbaijan donald trump foreign affairs Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts