‘Sends A Terrible Message’ Doug Schoen Says Texas Dems Fleeing ‘Very Damaging’ To ‘Democratic Brand’
Media ‘Sends A Terrible Message’: Doug Schoen Says Texas Dems Fleeing ‘Very Damaging’ To ‘Democratic Brand’ Screenshot/Rumble/Fox News Jason Cohen DCNF Reporter/Clipper August 08, 2025 4:16 PM ET August 08, 2025 4:16 PM ET Jason Cohen DCNF Reporter/Clipper Font Size: Former President Bill Clinton adviser Doug Schoen said on Friday that Texas House Democrats fleeing reflects poorly on the Democratic Party. Dozens of Texas House Democrats have fled to blue states such as Illinois to deny the state House a quorum needed to enact a new congressional map that could net Republicans up to five additional seats. Schoen suggested on “The Story with Martha MacCallum” that fleeing makes it appear as if Democrats are not fighting. (RELATED: Blue States Try To Keep Illegals’ Medicaid Data Hidden From Trump Admin) WATCH: “I think this is very damaging, Trace, to the Democratic brand. For those in my party who say we should be aggressive, we should fight the Republicans, I think you stand and fight, not cut and run, which is what they have done,” Schoen told guest-host Trace Gallagher. “This sends a terrible message, I think, to voters generally and certainly swing voters, and it’s become tit-for-tat.” “I would advise the Democratic legislators from Texas: go back, make your arguments, state your reasons for … opposing this, and say what you’re for — what the Democrats stand for — both Texas and nationally,” he continued. “But so far, what we’re getting is a really, really terrible image that hurts our country and certainly hurts my party.” The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agreed to assist in tracking down the lawmakers who fled, Republican Texas Sen. John Cornyn announced Thursday. Cornyn had asked for the FBI’s assistance in a Tuesday letter, claiming the lawmakers may have violated state bribery laws in allegedly accepting funds from outside groups. Groups linked to billionaire donor George Soros and failed Texas candidate Beto O’Rourke are allegedly covering expenses for the lawmakers. Former “Meet The Press” moderator Chuck Todd on “CNN News Central” Monday also criticized the lawmakers for fleeing to Illinois as the state has engaged in gerrymandering. “I think it’s a bad look for a party that claims to be always trying to protect the democracy — is to hole up in a state that gerrymanders: the state of Illinois,” Todd said. “I mean, one of the worst … Texas, Florida, Illinois, and Maryland — those are your four giant gerrymandered states. And if you’re trying to make a point on gerrymandering, I don’t think I’d be going to the state of Illinois as a place to hide.” CNN chief data analyst Harry Enten said on “CNN News Central” July 31 that Texas’ proposed redistricting map could cause Republicans to retain control of the House of Representatives in the 2026 midterm elections. “You might think five seats is just five seats, but keep in mind this — margin to spare for the House majority: in 2020, the Democrats had four seats; 2022, Republicans had four seats; this time around, two seats for Republicans out of the 2024 elections,” Enten said. “Five seats can make all the difference in the world.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : democratic party doug schoen fox news texas Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe Media 4 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind Politics 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 4 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump 8 Biden's Secretary Of State Returns To The Swamp 9 REPORT: Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller Allegedly Living In Memory-Care Facility 10 Elite University System Shudders At Trump Settlement's Price Tag