Texas House Speaker Drops Hammer On Runaway Dems
Media Texas House Speaker Aims Sights On Runaway Dems Screenshot/Rumble/Fox News Harold Hutchison Media Reporter August 08, 2025 3:58 PM ET August 08, 2025 3:58 PM ET Harold Hutchison Media Reporter Font Size: The Speaker of the Texas House of Representatives announced new measures Friday targeting Democrats who fled the state to deny the body a quorum for redistricting. Democrats in the Texas state legislature fled to Democratic-controlled states like New York and Illinois in order to thwart a special session of the body to consider redistricting that could net Republicans up to five seats in the United States House of Representatives. Republican State Rep. Dustin Burrows, the speaker of the Texas House of Representatives, listed the measures the body was taking in response to the absences. (RELATED: ‘Have They Been Rigged?’: Scott Jennings Lists Blue States Where Dems Dominate Congressional Maps) “I have activated a new policy stating that any member absent for the purpose of breaking quorum will no longer have their paycheck or per diem deposited electronically. While the Constitution forbids us from withholding pay, it does not dictate how we issue the pay,” Burrows said. “Those checks must now be picked up in person, on the Capitol grounds, effective immediately.” WATCH: “Starting today, to safeguard taxpayer dollars and account for forthcoming liabilities, under rule five section three of house rules which authorizes fines for members absent without leave, 30% of each quorum breaking members operating monthly budget will be reserved and made unavailable for expenditure,” Burrows continued. “Absent members must also appear in person to approve or enact any of the following: requests for travel reimbursement, personal action requests including those increasing or decreasing staff salaries.” The FBI has agreed to join efforts to track down the Democrats who fled Texas following a request from Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas while Republican Attorney General Ken Paxton of Texas announced Friday he was asking a court to declare the seats of the fleeing Democrats vacant, accusing them of carrying out an “out-of-state rebellion.” Burrows announced other measures to target the absentee state representatives. BREAKING: I’ve filed a historic lawsuit against Democrat runaways in SCOTX to secure an order declaring their seats vacant. These cowards deliberately sabotaged the constitutional process. Their out-of-state rebellion cannot go unchecked, and the business of Texas must go on. pic.twitter.com/FDVVEjQDIx — Attorney General Ken Paxton (@KenPaxtonTX) August 8, 2025 “Approval for newsletters and House reproduction services: Failure to appear in person will result in the cancellation of your newsletters and the encumbered funds,” Burrows said. “We have all hands on deck. We are continuing to explore new avenues to compel a quorum and we will keep pressing forward until the job is done.” Burrows noted that the special session also was intended to pass legislation to address the July 4 floods in Texas which killed dozens. “To those in California, Illinois, New York, or Massachusetts – wherever you may be – hear this: the bill cannot be referred to committee without a quorum,” Burrows said. “Every hour you remain away is time stolen from those Texans in need. Each one of you knows that eventually, you will come back. And we will pass the priorities of the special session on the call, but with each passing day, the political cost of your absence is rising, and it will be paid in full.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : redistricting texas texas floods texas house of representatives Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn