Vanderbilt’s Diego Pavia Makes Asinine National Title Statement That Will Age Terribly This Season
Editorial Vanderbilt’s Diego Pavia Makes Asinine National Title Statement That Will Age Terribly This Season BLOG (Photo by Johnnie Izquierdo/Getty Images) Andrew Powell Sports and Entertainment Blogger August 08, 2025 3:49 PM ET August 08, 2025 3:49 PM ET Andrew Powell Sports and Entertainment Blogger Font Size: LMAO … give me a break, man. Diego Pavia, the quarterback of the Vanderbilt Commodores, is completely out of his mind going into the new college football campaign. Pavia came into the spotlight in the 2024 season after Vandy landed a surprising upset victory against Alabama, 40-35, in Nashville, Tennessee. When it comes to the history of college football, it was definitely one of the largest upsets that we’ve seen in some time. With that being said though, the Commodores were just “eh” for the remainder of the year, finishing things up with a 7-6 record. (RELATED: West Virginia’s Rich Rodriguez Blasts Society As ‘Soft,’ And He’s Not Wrong) For Vandy, sure, it wasn’t a bad year. But it’s nothing like the national championships that Pavia speaks of. Now don’t get me wrong, it’s awesome when you see a young player have a lot of confidence, especially a quarterback. But there’s a thin line between confidence and just being cocky, and I don’t know what side you want to sway him in with his latest statement, but one thing is clear: He’s out of his damn mind! Because get this: He actually believes Vanderbilt can win the national championship this season. Yes, seriously. “I think we’ve got the tools (offensively) and defensively to put our foot forward and win the national championship,” said Pavia while speaking with Paul Finebaum in an interview Wednesday, per AL.com. Diego Pavia says Vanderbilt is coming for it all this season 🏆 👀 (via @finebaum) pic.twitter.com/b474tHaOcY — SEC Network (@SECNetwork) August 7, 2025 There’s delusional, and then there’s Diego Pavia. Tags : college football national championship vanderbilt university Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive US 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School US 4 Matt Towery Shares What Two Things Can Hurt Republicans Most In 2026 Media 5 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health Popular Articles 1 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School 4 Matt Towery Shares What Two Things Can Hurt Republicans Most In 2026 5 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 6 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 7 John Deere To Invest $20 Billion Into US Operations 8 FBI Agrees To Hunt Fugitive Dems Fleeing Texas Redistricting Vote 9 House Dems Trash America At Radical Summit In Mexico