ROOKE Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act
Entertainment ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act OPINION Photo by Christian Thompson/Disneyland Resort via Getty Images Mary Rooke Commentary and Analysis Writer August 08, 2025 3:31 PM ET August 08, 2025 3:31 PM ET Mary Rooke Commentary and Analysis Writer Font Size: Famous singer and talk show host Kelly Clarkson showed up for her children, no matter the financial, emotional, or professional cost. Clarkson announced Wednesday that she would be cancelling all her August dates of her Las Vegas residency, saying that she needed to be “fully present” for her children while their father was ill. Shortly afterwards, Thursday, the news broke that her ex-husband, music manager Brandon Blackstock, had died of cancer. While exact financial details for her current “Studio Sessions” residency are not publicly disclosed, we can estimate her potential earnings loss based on reported figures from her previous “Chemistry” residency, which spanned 28 shows in 2023 and 2024. Clarkson earned approximately $10 million total from that residency, averaging about $357,000 per show. She canceled four shows in August, and based on the previous residency, this move could cost her around $1.5 million. Now, in normal situations, one would expect exes to have a continuous relationship. However, Blackstock and Clarkson’s divorce was highly publicized, exposing the hardships Clarkson faced during their marriage. The divorce was brutal. The relationship had completely broken apart, and it was clear that this deeply hurt her. (Sign up for Mary Rooke’s weekly newsletter here!) But instead of allowing all of her pain and suffering to overtake her, she put it aside for her children. The details are weak on whether Clarkson was at her ex-husband’s bedside when he died, but the fact that during his last moments, she dropped everything to care for the family they created is a beautiful testament to what being a good mother means. View this post on Instagram A post shared by Kelly Clarkson (@kellyclarkson) Parents have a responsibility to protect their children. Some might say that her being there for her children during this time is the bare minimum since they are her children. However, our society has increasingly accepted and promoted the view that, regardless of one’s parenting duties, caring for oneself should always take precedence over caring for others, even one’s children. Clarkson bucked this narrative. She didn’t let a team of nannies soothe the broken hearts of her children. (ROOKE: One Of The Largest School Districts In Country Was Failing For Years. Then Republicans Took Over) Her children didn’t ask for the divorce. The wounds from divorce cut deep and stay open for years. People don’t realize just what children go through when their parents’ marriage ends, or how it will affect them later, because they are always too busy claiming that kids are resilient to see their broken hearts or confused souls. Instead of compounding the pain of their dad dying by holding resentment towards him, she carried a lot of their heartache by being present for them. This is not an easy thing to do, but she did it well. Follow Mary Rooke on X: @MaryRooke Sign up for Mary Rooke’s weekly newsletter here! Tags : cancer children divorce kelly clarkson motherhood parenting Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn