South Park Went Nuclear On MAGA, And That’s All The More Reason To Love It
Opinion Conservatives Mocked By South Park Don’t React The Way Liberals Want Them To OPINION (Photo by ALEX BRANDON/POOL/AFP via Getty Images) Mr. Right Daily Caller Masculinity Consultant August 08, 2025 2:26 PM ET August 08, 2025 2:26 PM ET Mr. Right Daily Caller Masculinity Consultant Font Size: South Park’s latest episode went nuclear on MAGA, but that’s all the more reason to love it. The second episode of Season 27 again poked fun at President Trump, ICE, Vice President JD Vance, Kristi Noem, and others. It was hysterical and embraced one of the best qualities of good comedy: Sparing no one. (Subscribe to MR. RIGHT, a free weekly newsletter about modern masculinity) Despite being a target of satire, Vance had a good response after he was depicted as Tattoo from the classic show “Fantasy Island”: Well, I’ve finally made it https://t.co/Mu7VrSVTSb — JD Vance (@JDVance) August 7, 2025 As did Charlie Kirk, who was also mocked: Charlie Kirk reacts to South Park’s episodepic.twitter.com/v2cPDz2wNq — Defiant L’s (@DefiantLs) August 7, 2025 The episode portrayed Noem as a botox bimbo whose face would slid off her and slither around on the ground, and had an extended bit of Noem’s character shooting puppies every time she saw one. “Got A Nut”: When Mr. Mackay loses his job, he desperately tries to find a new way to make a living. South Park’s 27th season continues this Wednesday, August 6 at 10/9c on Comedy Central and next day on Paramount+. pic.twitter.com/13ZGAfYmp3 — South Park (@SouthPark) August 5, 2025 Noem criticized South Park, telling Glenn Beck, “It never ends, but it’s so lazy to constantly make fun of women for how they look.” “It’s always the liberals and the extremists who do that,” she said. “If they wanted to criticize my job, go ahead and do that, but clearly they can’t, they just pick something petty like that.” A huge difference between the right and the left is that, generally, the right has a better sense of humor than the left. I emphasize generally because sometimes, the right is as sensitive as the left whenever one of their own is mocked or criticized. And for the most part, the right’s response to the second episode seemed to be embracing of the humor, rather than lashing out. After the first episode in which Trump was depicted in bed with Satan, the White House was furious. But they have since remained quiet, and probably for the best. South Park may not be your thing. But it’s good for conservatives to always support free speech, essential to comedy, and to keep differentiating themselves from humorless woke scolds who cannot take a joke. Did you enjoy this post? Follow Mr. Right on X and consider checking out his full weekly newsletter, available here: MrRight.DailyCaller.com Tags : charlie kirk donald trump jd vance kristi noem south park Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School US 2 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe Media 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith Sports 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever Opinion Popular Articles 1 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School 2 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 6 Former UFC Star Speaks On Turn To Christianity After Serious Procedure 7 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 Trump Drops Hammer On Streets Of DC After Savage Assault Of Former DOGE Staffer 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack