Dem ‘Blueprint’ Promised By Hakeem Jeffries Still Nowhere To Be Seen At Self-Imposed Deadline
Politics Dem ‘Blueprint’ Promised By Hakeem Jeffries Still Nowhere To Be Seen At Self-Imposed Deadline Adam Pack Reporter August 08, 2025 2:22 PM ET August 08, 2025 2:22 PM ET Adam Pack Reporter Font Size: House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries pledged to roll out a plan articulating Democrats’ policy agenda — explicitly not about President Donald Trump — by August 8, but appears likely to miss his self-imposed deadline. Jeffries committed to unveiling a “blueprint for a better America” that would specify what Democrats stand for within 100 days of delivering an address on April 30. Though Jeffries and House Democrats have continued to beat the drum torching the president and his One Big Beautiful Bill Act, the caucus has largely steered clear of rolling out any policy proposals reminiscent of a “blueprint” — and appears likely to miss his Friday deadline of specifying any policy details. (RELATED: Dem Admits Party’s Epstein Files Attack Line Is ‘Bulls*it’) “Over these next 100 days House Democrats are going to lay out a blueprint for a better America. And you will see a vision for this country’s future that isn’t about Donald Trump. It’s all about you,” Jeffries said to applause during an address slamming the president’s first 100 days. “These are the questions we are thinking about each and every day.” On July 23, day 84 of Jeffries’ 100-day timeline, a reporter asked for a status update about the blueprint during a press conference Jeffries hosted shortly before the House adjourned for the August district work period. Jeffries replied that he planned to share more with the media in the future, before qualifying that the policy details may not come until Democrats retake the House majority. “We look forward to sharing those ideas with the American people consistent with what I’ve talked about in terms of our focus on making life more affordable for everyday Americans and driving down the high cost of living,” Jeffries said, while also referring to Democrats’ focus on healthcare issues and Social Security. “We’ll have a lot more to say about the actions that we would take as soon as we have the opportunity to govern in the majority,” Jeffries added. Though the lead House Democrat has organized multiple “days of action” highlighting Democrats’ focus on different topics, including Medicaid and veterans, they have centered their opposition to Trump in their messaging, rather than putting forth policy details. WASHINGTON, DC – JULY 02: House Minority Leader Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), joined by fellow Democrats, speaks out against the One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act at a press conference outside of the U.S. Capitol on July 02, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images) Republicans have consistently hammered Jeffries and House Democrats for letting their resistance to the president’s agenda dominate the party’s messaging while sharing few policy details about how they would govern. “Hakeem Jeffries has no blueprint, no plan, and no clue,” NRCC spokesman Mike Marinella said in a statement. “After 200 days of President Trump delivering for the American people, Democrats can’t outline a plan because their real agenda is too toxic to say out loud: open borders, sky-high taxes, handouts for illegal immigrants, men in women’s sports, defunding the police, and socialist control.” “Hakeem is steering the Democrat Party straight into oncoming traffic, and acting like it’s a parade,” Marinella added. House Republican Conference chairwoman Lisa McClain echoed a similar sentiment Wednesday while slamming Democrats’ fear-based messaging regarding Medicaid. “They have to fearmonger because they have no plan, no vision and no leader,” House Republican Conference chairwoman Lisa McClain told the Daily Caller News Foundation on Wednesday. “All they have is lies.” Vice President Kamala Harris came under similar criticism during her 2024 presidential campaign for releasing few details about how she would govern if elected to the presidency. A spokesperson for Jeffries did not respond to the DCNF’s multiple requests for comment. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : hakeem jeffries kamala harris one big beautiful bill act Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People Editorial 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance Media 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 OPINION INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car 6 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 7 James Carville Takes Down Epstein Episode After Letter From Melania Trump's Attorney 8 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 9 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump