REPORT Youth Pastor Allegedly Posed As Teen, Solicited Explicit Images From Girls
US REPORT: Youth Pastor Allegedly Posed As Teen, Solicited Explicit Images From Girls Photo by MAEVA DESTOMBES/Hans Lucas/AFP via Getty Images Skye Graham Contributor August 08, 2025 12:53 PM ET August 08, 2025 12:53 PM ET Skye Graham Contributor Font Size: A youth pastor reportedly pretended to be a teenage boy online to solicit messages containing explicit imagery with underage girls on various social media platforms. Jacob Ryan Barnett, 34, was employed as Associate Pastor at the Catawba Valley Baptist Church in Virginia when he was arrested on Wednesday, according to federal court documents obtained by the New York Post. A married man with a 2-year-old son, he allegedly posed as a 17-year-old boy named “Jodie Johnson” to communicate with teen girls. He contacted a 15-year-old girl and convinced her to send sexually explicit footage of herself to him over the course of days, according to the court records reviewed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office (USAO) for the Western District of Virginia. Barnett “repeatedly asked” the girl to send him nude photos in July, to which the girl was hesitant, according to records obtained by the Post. The pastor allegedly sent her a nude photo of himself despite her apprehension. Late yesterday, FBI Richmond, with assistance from @FBICharlotte and local law enforcement partners, arrested Jacob Ryan Barnett of Catawba, VA for soliciting sexual material from children. We know this is what keeps parents up at night, and as Acting Special Agent in Charge Ann… pic.twitter.com/7jgQJXagV0 — FBI Richmond (@FBIRichmond) August 7, 2025 Barnett messaged a different 15-year-old girl May 19 at 4:30 p.m., then answered a phone call from his wife at 4:32 p.m., court documents alleged. He then allegedly received several images from the girl at 4:33 p.m. and replied a minute after. (RELATED: Man Who Wore Wig, Allegedly Tried Filming Girls In Bathrooms Sentenced To Prison) The next day, he contacted the girl right before getting a call from his wife, and the teen sent him messages while he and his wife were on the phone, authorities alleged. The girl’s mother notified the FBI in May after finding explicit messages on her daughter’s phone, according to the probable cause affidavit obtained by the Post. The girl allegedly proved “Johnson” with several nude images and footage. When the mom searched the phone number, she found that it belonged to Barnett, records alleged. Agents found that Barnett was seemingly following thousands of underage girls on TikTok, according to the USAO. He allegedly also tried to get explicit imagery of minors with Discord and Snapchat accounts. “The heinous crimes Barnett is charged with are what keep parents up at night. Educating our kids and communities about the threats posed by faceless, online personas is crucial to maintaining their safety,” Ann Busby, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) Richmond Division Ann Busby said. “Working with our partners, FBI Richmond will bring the full weight of the justice system on anyone who attempts to harm our children. The FBI will never stop searching for these predators and bringing justice for victims,” she continued. Authorities charged Barnett with attempted coercion and enticement of a minor. The accused will face a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years behind bars and up to life in prison if convicted. The Department of Justice did not respond to the Daily Caller at the time of publication. Tags : child sex abuse pastor richmond sexting scandal virginia Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn