Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump’s Civil Rights
Politics Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump’s Civil Rights (Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images) Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter August 08, 2025 12:47 PM ET August 08, 2025 12:47 PM ET Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter Font Size: A federal investigation has been launched into Democratic New York Attorney General Letitia James for potentially violating President Donald Trump’s civil rights through her lawsuit against him, according to multiple reports. The acting U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of New York issued subpoenas related to James’ civil fraud case against Trump and his company, as well as her case against the National Rifle Association, the New York Times reported on Friday. The DOJ, the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of New York, Lowell and New York Attorney General’s Office did not respond to requests for comment. James secured a $454 million civil fraud judgement against Trump in February 2024, which is still being appealed. She sued him in 2022 for allegedly overvaluing his assets to secure more favorable loans. In April, the Federal Housing Agency (FHFA) referred James to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for allegedly falsifying mortgage documents. “Any weaponization of the justice system should disturb every American,” a spokesperson for the New York Attorney General’s office said in a statement to the New York Post. “We stand strongly behind our successful litigation against the Trump Organization and the National Rifle Association, and we will continue to stand up for New Yorkers’ rights.” (RELATED: Does Tish James Live In Her Two Houses 500 Miles From Albany? We Knocked On Doors To Find Out) NEW YORK, NEW YORK – JANUARY 08: NY Attorney General Letitia James speaks during a press conference at the offices of the Attorney General on January 08, 2025 in New York City. (Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images) James’ attorney Abbe Lowell told the NYT an investigation into the civil fraud case is “the most blatant and desperate example of this administration carrying out the president’s political retribution campaign.” “Weaponizing the Department of Justice to try to punish an elected official for doing her job is an attack on the rule of law and a dangerous escalation by this administration,” he told the outlet. “If prosecutors carry out this improper tactic and are genuinely interested in the truth, we are ready and waiting with facts and the law.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : attorney general letitia james new york trump administration Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator