INGERSOLL Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It
Opinion INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It BLOG (Photo by BASTIEN OHIER/Hans Lucas/AFP via Getty Images) Geoffrey Ingersoll Editor at Large August 08, 2025 12:38 PM ET August 08, 2025 12:38 PM ET Geoffrey Ingersoll Editor at Large Font Size: Below is State of the Day, a morning newsletter by Daily Caller Editor-at-Large Geoff Ingersoll. Sign up here. __ Greetings, Dear Reader, I’m not going to pretend like I have a PhD in Economics or like I’ve been studying this issue in serious depth. It’s more like, you kind of know something is wrong and something is coming. That something is almost certainly bad and just as certainly gigantic. Welp, let’s ring in the weekend with … STOP EDUCATING WOMEN Roughly 40% of women with student loan debt have studied fields that are ranked either low or very low in likelihood to ever pay back the debt, according to data from the Federal Reserve and Department of Education. When it comes to men, that number is 13%. In absolute numbers, based on proportion of student loan debt held by each gender, that means women owe about $400 billion that will never be paid back and men about $70 billion. (RELATED: Trump Admin Gets Serious About Collecting Defaulted Student Loans After Borrowers Got A Pass Under Biden) This of course excludes degrees rated “medium” or higher in terms of ROI, or return on investment. Many of those mediums are also unlikely to contribute enough to pay back their loans, which now total a staggering $1.7 trillion and counting, mostly held by Americans under 35 years old. Of the top rated educational pursuits most likely to pay back their loans, the only one in which women have a staggeringly high proportion is “Health Professions.” If we flip all this math on its head, the percentage of women studying degrees with “very high” likelihood to pay back the debt – Engineering and Computer and Info Sciences – breaks down to just 4.5%. For men, that number is 5x, at 20.7%. Compounding the financial issue, Morgan Stanley estimates based on historic census data that by 2030, 45% of women aged 25-44 will be childless. If you don’t think these two data sets are correlated, then I have a bridge to sell you. Which brings me to the new, highly offensive material I’ve been working on for Thanksgiving: Stop educating women. Of course this is hyperbole, but the incoming social and financial tsunami we’re facing deserves nothing but the most extreme rhetoric. We’re about to have an absolute tidal wave of childless elderly women with no one to care for them and likely without the financial means to pay for their healthcare. “Stop educating women” is the harshest, most direct metaphor I can use in this case. More accurately, I mean stop debt financing for the educations women overwhelmingly prefer. So the guys taking out loans to study “Decolonization and Migration” are also women we should stop educating. In my regime, majors rated anything lower than highly likely to have enough ROI to pay off the loans within ten years will not get funded privately or federally. (This seems obvious, most banks do not make risky small business loans, and what is an education but a small business loan?) Instead, those funds will go to trades, and those guys who can’t get mommy and daddy to pay for their worthless degrees will instead become tradesmen with zero debt. Welders, Heavy Equipment Mechs and Techs, Electricians and Plumbers all make more on average and at younger ages than your average new college graduate, minus the debt. Also, these are all top heavy professions, meaning the vast majority of certified tradesmen are 55+ years old. In other words, demand is about to skyrocket. So, again, in my regime, instead of contributing to the debt, Jim learns to wire a commercial office space, Nancy marries Jim out of high school, they have 2.5 children by 25, zero debt, and probably a home out in the sticks. I’ll once again caveat this by saying I’m roughly shooting from the hip here, but even napkin math adds up in this regard. We can’t keep doing what we’re doing with education. It’s a population and debt disaster in the making. WHAT I’M READING This guy is like spilt milk personified. Biden Secretary Of State Antony Blinken Returns To The Swamp — I’m just glad there’s no stopping her. CIA Deep Staters Reportedly Tried To Stop Tulsi Gabbard From Revealing Truth About Russiagate — This is one of my favorite new things. Trump’s Census Bombshell Could Upend 2026 Midterms — And check out the Daily Caller Shop. There’s a very nice embroidered American flag hat under our Essentials tab — get it while supplies last. Tags : american workers colleges department of education federal reserve health care student loan debt student loans universities Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator