Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge’s Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin
US Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge’s Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin (Photo by DREW ANGERER/AFP via Getty Images) Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter August 08, 2025 12:01 PM ET August 08, 2025 12:01 PM ET Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter Font Size: Obama-appointed Judge James Boasberg exceeded his authority when he threatened the Trump administration with criminal contempt, an appeals court found on Friday. In a 2-1 decision, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the Trump administration, tossing Boasberg’s order finding probable cause for contempt over the administration’s decision not to turn planes around. Boasberg claimed administration officials violated a March 15 temporary restraining order (TRO) directing them not to remove alleged members of a foreign gang to El Salvador by sending out planes that same day. He initiated contempt proceedings even after the Supreme Court tossed his initial TRO in a 5-4 ruling in April. “The district court used the threat of criminal contempt to coerce the Executive Branch to comply with an order it had no authority to enforce,” Judge Neomi Rao, a Trump appointee, wrote in a concurring opinion. “And it directed that coercion toward the Executive’s exercise of its foreign affairs power. The significance of the district court’s error, coupled with the potential for abuse in future cases, justifies our intervention at this stage of the proceedings.” Judge Gregory Katsas, also a Trump appointee, wrote Boasberg’s order “would provoke many grave conflicts between the Judicial Branch and the Executive Branch at its highest levels.” (RELATED: Obama-Appointed Judge Threatens Trump Admin With ‘Criminal Contempt’) “[T]his Court and the Supreme Court repeatedly have afforded review through mandamus when a lower court has encroached on foreign policy, prosecutorial, or other Executive Branch prerogatives,” he wrote. “The show cause order does precisely that: It uses the threat of criminal prosecution to pressure the Executive Branch to assert custody of suspected enemy aliens outside the country, with a view to bringing them back into the country, or else to endure a court directed prosecution by a court appointed attorney presumably not subject to the Attorney General’s control.” James Boasberg, chief judge of the US District Court for the District of Columbia, attends a panel discussion at the annual American Board Association (ABA) Spring Antitrust Meeting at the Marriott Marquis in Washington, DC, on April 2, 2025. (Photo by DREW ANGERER/AFP via Getty Images) The Department of Justice filed a misconduct complaint against Boasberg July 30 for making “improper public comments about President Trump and his Administration.” Boasberg told Chief Justice John Roberts during a judicial conference in March that he, along with other colleagues, was concerned “that the Administration would disregard rulings of federal courts leading to a constitutional crisis,” according to a memo reported by the Federalist. Judge Cornelia Pillard, an Obama appointee, wrote in a dissent that the courts “cannot long endure if disappointed litigants defy court orders with impunity rather than legally challenge them.” “Chief Judge Boasberg faced immense pressure to make a quick decision in a rapidly evolving, high stakes situation,” she wrote. “He performed that task calmly and with an even hand, bringing to bear his skill and wisdom as an experienced jurist.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : alien enemies act james boasberg trump administration Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator