Trump Admin Signals Willingness To Work With Harvard Over Foreign Students
Education Trump Admin Signals Willingness To Work With Harvard Over Foreign Students (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images) Jaryn Crouson Education Reporter August 08, 2025 11:45 AM ET August 08, 2025 11:45 AM ET Jaryn Crouson Education Reporter Font Size: The Trump administration has stated a willingness to “meet and confer” and consider “counterproposals” from Harvard in the battle over the university’s foreign students. Harvard sued the administration in May after it attempted to block the Ivy League school from enrolling foreign students. With Harvard already earning an injunction against the order, the Trump administration is now signaling a willingness to settle with the university by agreeing not to enforce its revocation of Harvard’s Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) certification, according to a Wednesday court filing. (RELATED: Chinese Communist Party-Backed University Offers To Poach Harvard Foreign Students) “Defendants proposed this stipulation to Plaintiff in an attempt to jointly simplify the case,” the court filing reads. “Defendants also made clear that they were open to counterproposals and a meet and confer. Plaintiff did not accept.” Harvard and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) did not respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. Students from Massachusetts of Technology, Harvard University and others rally at a protest encampment by The Scientists Against Genocide on Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Kresge Lawn on April 22, 2024 in Cambridge, Massachusetts. (Photo by Scott Eisen/Getty Images) The DHS in May notified Harvard its SEVP certification has been revoked, preventing the school from enrolling new foreign students and demanding all foreign students currently enrolled at the school transfer elsewhere, citing a “toxic campus climate.” Harvard promptly sued and earned a restraining order against the action, but President Donald Trump attempted to enforce the ban through an executive order, which was subsequently blocked again. In July, the State Department announced it had opened an investigation into Harvard’s use of the Exchange Visitor Program. Earlier reports in July suggested Harvard may be willing to settle with the administration, but Harvard president Alan Garber reportedly denied these claims, stating instead that the university plans to defeat the administration in court. Along with the case challenging the administration’s revocation of foreign students, Harvard is also challenging Trump’s funding cuts to the university. The federal government has so far revoked nearly $3 billion in grants to the university and aimed at its accreditation. Harvard is accused of failing to properly address antisemitism, engaging in illegal racial discrimination and failing to fully disclose its foreign funding sources. The university is currently under investigation by the Department of Justice (DOJ) after it vowed not to comply with the administration. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : department of education department of homeland security department of justice donald trump foreign students harvard harvard university trump administration Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn