Scott Jennings Doesn’t Let Ana Kasparian Off The Hook When She Calls ICE ‘Gestapo’ During Fiery Exchange
Media Scott Jennings Doesn’t Let Ana Kasparian Off The Hook When She Calls ICE ‘Gestapo’ During Fiery Exchange Screenshot/Rumble/CNN Harold Hutchison Media Reporter August 08, 2025 11:42 AM ET August 08, 2025 11:42 AM ET Harold Hutchison Media Reporter Font Size: Republican strategist Scott Jennings on Thursday criticized “The Young Turks” co-host Ana Kasparian when she called United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) the “Gestapo.” ICE is offering bonuses of up to $50,000 for those selected to join the agency, the New York Post reported. After the panel discussed actor Dean Cain announcing he would be sworn in, Jennings contrasted the treatment of ICE at the hands of Republicans and Democrats during a “CNN NewsNight” panel discussion. (RELATED: ‘Have They Been Rigged?’: Scott Jennings Lists Blue States Where Dems Dominate Congressional Maps) “I will just say Republicans right now are trying to recruit and give bonuses to people who want to serve in ICE and Democrats, right now, and people on the left, are encouraging violence against people who want to serve in ICE and are putting them in harm’s way every day,” Jennings said, with Kasparian cutting in by asking. “They are? How are they encouraging violence? How exactly?” “The two parties and how they’re treating ICE agents right now, I think Republicans embracing recruitment of ICE and Democrats encouraging violence against ICE – terrible,” Jennings said, with Kasparian responding, “So, we’re just going to make a declarative statement like that without providing a single shred of evidence.” WATCH: ICE agents have faced a 1000% increase in assaults over 2024 totals, according to a Department of Homeland Security release. “You have not seen the myriad stories of ICE agents? Democrats every day are calling them the Gestapo. Do you think that that helps or hurts?” Jennings asked during a back-and-forth as Kasparian said, “No, no. Hold on. Hold on. Well, they do act like Gestapo when they’re showing up.” “Now you’re doing it. Now, you’re doing it. I assume you condone it,” Jennings said while Kasparian complained about ICE using a rented Penske truck to conduct an operation. “So you condone the violence? Do you condone the violence?” “I don’t want my tax dollars going to that garbage, okay?” Kasparian said, with Jennings responding, “Enforcement of federal law?” In Texas, there were two incidents where shots were fired at ICE or Border Patrol facilities since July 4, with ten people being charged with attempted murder in connection to the attack in Alvarado, Texas. “Do the ICE agents deserve to be having violent acts committed, rocks thrown at them? Kill them?” Jennings asked Kasparian, who responded, “No, they don’t. They don’t. And those people who do do that get arrested, and they should be.” “They’ve been told the ICE agents are Gestapo,” Jennings said. Resistance to ICE operations to arrest illegal immigrants have included a Milwaukee judge who allegedly helped an illegal immigrant briefly evade ICE agents in April. Democratic Mayor Freddie O’Connell of Nashville released the names of ICE agents involved in a crackdown on illegal immigrants in the city in May. (RELATED: ‘Say It Directly’: Scott Jennings Calls Out Ana Navarro Over Trump-Epstein Insinuation) In New York City, ICE agents arrested Democratic mayoral candidate Brad Lander on June 18 after he allegedly interfered with an operation in a Manhattan court, while Democratic Rep. LaMonica McIver of New Jersey was charged with assaulting an ICE agent after an incident in May at an ICE facility in Newark. One person fired at ICE agents with a pistol when ICE raided a California marijuana farm in July after obtaining a warrant, with the FBI offering a $50,000 reward for information leading to the suspect’s identification, arrest and conviction. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : ana kasparian cnn gestapo ice illegal immigration immigration and customs enforcement immigration and customs enforcement ice nazis scott jennings the young turks Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School US 2 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe Media 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith Sports 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever Opinion Popular Articles 1 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School 2 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 6 Former UFC Star Speaks On Turn To Christianity After Serious Procedure 7 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 Trump Drops Hammer On Streets Of DC After Savage Assault Of Former DOGE Staffer 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack