Trump, Netanyahu Reportedly Got Into Shouting Match Over Starvation In Gaza
World Trump, Netanyahu Reportedly Got Into Shouting Match Over Starvation In Gaza Left: (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Right: (Photo by JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images) Ashley Brasfield Reporter August 08, 2025 11:37 AM ET August 08, 2025 11:37 AM ET Ashley Brasfield Reporter Font Size: President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu reportedly had a heated argument over the issue of starvation in Gaza. The Two heads of state conducted a private phone call July 28 hours after Netanyahu demanded it, a current and a former official told NBC News. During the call, the Israeli prime minister alleged that accounts of starvation were false and crafted by Hamas and Trump reportedly interrupted him and started to yell. Trump reportedly told Netanyahu that he was not interested in hearing Netanyahu’s allegations, saying his aides had presented evidence that children in Gaza were suffering from hunger, multiple current and former officials said. (RELATED: Trump Admin Reportedly Was Not Happy With Netanyahu’s Syria Strikes) This morning I joined @SEPeaceMissions Steve Witkoff for a visit to Gaza to learn the truth about @GHFUpdates aid sites. We received briefings from @IDF and spoke to folks on the ground. GHF delivers more than one million meals a day, an incredible feat! pic.twitter.com/GyVK5cwNgZ — Ambassador Mike Huckabee (@USAmbIsrael) August 1, 2025 The recent issues between Trump and Netanyahu kicked off on July 27 after Netanyahu spoke at an event in Jerusalem, according to The Associated Press. “There is no policy of starvation in Gaza, and there is no starvation in Gaza,” he said. The following day, while visiting Scotland, Trump was questioned by reporters about Netanyahu’s remarks. He said he had witnessed imagery of Gazan children who “look very hungry,” insisted there is “real starvation” happening and added that “you can’t fake that.” U.S. Ambassador Huckabee and Steve Witkoff visit Gaza. pic.twitter.com/HMuAS2m9Bg — Open Source Intel (@Osint613) August 1, 2025 A former U.S. official briefed regarding the conversation called it “a direct, mostly one-way conversation about the status of humanitarian aid” where Trump “was doing most of the talking,” NBC News reported. (RELATED: SHOSHANA BRYEN: Israel Is Tipping The Scales) The phone call led to a visit to the region last week by U.S. Special Envoy to the Middle East Steve Witkoff aimed at establish a more unified approach to the ongoing conflict. Israeli officials appreciated Witkoff’s visit, sources told the outlet. They reportedly saw his body language and the questions he put forward as signs that he understood the challenges Israel is facing. During the visit, Witkoff asked officials whether the current relief operations were adequate to address the ongoing requirements or if they require expansion, sources said. Witkoff spoke with Trump Monday after his return and they covered both humanitarian efforts in Gaza and Witkoff’s conversation with Israeli officials and families of hostages, according to a White House official. (RELATED: Witkoff Meets With Putin In Last-Ditch Effort For Peace) When asked by the press Tuesday if he would support Israel occupying Gaza, Trump focused on the immediate issue of hunger. President Trump on possible Israeli plans to occupy all of Gaza: “I really can’t say. That’s going to be pretty much up to Israel.” pic.twitter.com/i2eRUecLaF — CSPAN (@cspan) August 5, 2025 Regarding a military occupation, he responded, “I really can’t say. That’s going to be pretty much up to Israel.” Netanyahu stated that Israel plans to take control of the entire Gaza Strip to remove Hamas from the area on Thursday. Tags : benjamin netanyahu donald trump gaza israel Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People Editorial 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance Media 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 OPINION INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car 6 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 7 James Carville Takes Down Epstein Episode After Letter From Melania Trump's Attorney 8 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 9 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump