Trump Reportedly Authorizes Military To Target ‘Terrorist’ Drug Cartels
Defense Trump Reportedly Authorizes Military To Target ‘Terrorist’ Drug Cartels Photo by David Swanson/AFP via Getty Images Hudson Crozier DCNF Crime and Extremism Reporter August 08, 2025 11:18 AM ET August 08, 2025 11:18 AM ET Hudson Crozier DCNF Crime and Extremism Reporter Font Size: President Donald Trump has ordered U.S. troops to use military force against drug cartels, according to The New York Times. The president secretly signed an order targeting cartels that he has labeled as foreign terrorist organizations, The New York Times reported Friday, citing sources familiar with the matter. Pentagon officials are currently forming strategies for the military to confront the Latin American criminal networks responsible for flooding the U.S. with deadly illicit drugs, the outlet’s sources said. “President Trump’s top priority is protecting the homeland, which is why he took the bold step to designate several cartels and gangs as foreign terrorist organizations,” White House spokesperson Anna Kelly told the Daily Caller News Foundation. The White House did not comment on Trump’s reported order authorizing the military to target the cartels. (RELATED: Pentagon Gearing Up To Provide 20,000 Troops For Immigration Clampdown) 🚨 The U.S. has officially declared the following as Foreign Terrorist Organizations: Tren de Aragua, MS-13, the Sinaloa Cartel, the Jalisco New Generation Cartel, the United Cartels, the Gulf Cartel, the Northeast Cartel, and the Michoacán Family. pic.twitter.com/cgcw9juyEl — Rapid Response 47 (@RapidResponse47) February 19, 2025 It is not clear when Trump enacted the policy, according to the NYT. Trump’s order could provide the official basis for overt military action against the cartels on foreign soil or at sea, though legal issues could arise given that Trump’s approach is novel. Trump has increased the military’s role in addressing immigration problems by sending thousands of troops to secure the Southern border since he returned to office, Military.com reported. The Pentagon told the DCNF in June that it was reviewing a request from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to assist with as many as 20,000 troops. Trump also convinced Mexico to send 10,000 of its own National Guard troops to discourage illegal immigration into the U.S. in February in exchange for a pause on Trump’s tariffs. The Pentagon declined to comment. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : border border crisis defense department of homeland security donald trump drug cartels drugs foreign policy military pentagon Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination Politics 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking US Popular Articles 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking 6 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 7 Bagel Shop That Served JD Vance Vandalized With Poorly Spelled Graffiti 8 REPORT: Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller Allegedly Living In Memory-Care Facility 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack