Kash Patel slams ‘corrupt’ sanctuary sheriff indicted for cannabis company extortion
Boston Kash Patel slams 'corrupt' sanctuary sheriff indicted for cannabis company extortion Tompkins faces up to 20 years in prison on each count after allegedly exploiting dispensary partnership for personal gain By Alexandra Koch Fox News Published August 8, 2025 1:41pm EDT | Updated August 8, 2025 2:44pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Boston-area sheriff accused of extortion Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins is charged with two counts of extortion in relation to prior dealings with a cannabis dispensary. (Credit: WFXT) NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Boston's sanctuary sheriff was arrested Friday on federal charges after allegedly leveraging his elected position to extort $50,000 from a cannabis executive who was seeking state approval to open a dispensary—a scheme FBI Director Kash Patel called a betrayal of public trust. Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins, 67, who oversees more than 1,000 employees in the Boston-area, was handcuffed Friday morning in the Southern District of Florida after a federal grand jury indicted him on two counts of extortion under color of official right, according to a statement from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts. "When someone entrusted with enforcing the law is accused of breaking it for personal gain, it undermines the public’s trust in every honest officer who wears the badge," Patel told Fox News Digital. "The FBI will pursue corruption at every level, because no one is above the law. The people of Suffolk County, and the country, deserve leaders who serve them, not themselves." Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins was arrested on Friday in connection to an illegal licensing scheme. (Matt Stone/MediaNews Group/Boston Herald via Getty Images) SUSPECTED ICE FACILITY ATTACKERS ARRESTED IN BLUE CITY, CHARGED WITH ASSAULTING FEDERAL OFFICERS Tompkins was appointed sheriff of the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Department (SCSD) in 2013, elected in a 2014 special election, and later re-elected to serve successive six-year terms. He made headlines in 2019 after booting Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents out of the county jail, signing an eviction notice that required hundreds of illegal immigrant detainees to be moved out within 60 days, according to a report from the Boston Herald. FLORIDA EX-SHERIFF ARRESTED FOR ALLEGEDLY RUNNING ILLEGAL GAMBLING HOUSE THAT GENERATED MILLIONS According to court documents, a cannabis company applied in 2019 for a retail dispensary license in Boston through the Massachusetts Cannabis Control Commission (CCC). To meet the state’s Positive Impact Plan (PIP) requirement, the company partnered with the sheriff’s department, which agreed to screen and refer graduates from its re-entry program for work at the dispensary's retail store. The company’s partnership with SCSD was formalized in a letter signed by Tompkins in 2019 and submitted with its dispensary license application in 2020. The cannabis commission approved the license in 2021 and renewed it in 2022 and 2023, with the company citing the partnership to meet the PIP requirement in each application. Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins is accused of pressuring an executive into selling him stocks and then demanding a refund. (John Wilcox/MediaNews Group/Boston Herald via Getty Images) To raise capital for an initial public offering (IPO) and expand as a publicly traded company, executives sought multimillion-dollar investments from institutions and other high-net-worth investors—not the general public, according to court documents. By mid-2020, the company was preparing for its IPO by producing audited financial statements, hiring attorneys and obtaining additional financing. Prosecutors allege Tompkins pressured the cannabis executive for stock, reminding the executive he had helped the company in its licensing efforts. The executive feared Tompkins might exploit his position as sheriff to undermine the partnership with the department, putting both the license and the company’s planned IPO in jeopardy. PATEL’S IMMIGRATION PUSH AT FBI YIELDS 10,000 ARRESTS SINCE JANUARY In October 2020, the company asked Tompkins for an updated partnership letter to submit with its license renewal application, according to court documents. Within a month of signing the letter, and after alleged pressure on the executive, Tompkins obtained a pre-IPO stake in the company. Prosecutors claim that in November 2020, Tompkins wired $50,000 from his retirement account to an account controlled by the executive, purchasing nearly 29,000 shares at $1.73 each. Following a reverse stock split, he held about 14,400 shares valued at $3.46 each. Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins is facing up to 20 years in prison for each count of extortion. (Matt Stone/MediaNews Group/Boston Herald via Getty Images) Once the company launched its IPO in 2021, the stock value jumped to $9.60 per share, increasing the value of Tompkins’ $50,000 purchase of 14,417 shares to $138,403. By May 2022, the value of Tompkins’ stock had dropped thousands of dollars below his $50,000 investment, but he allegedly demanded a full refund. The executive agreed, issuing five checks between May 2022 and July 2023. Prosecutors claim some checks were marked as "loan repayment" and "[company] expense" at Tompkins’s direction to disguise the nature of some of the payments. Copies of checks showed payments allegedly made to the Suffolk County sheriff. US ATTORNEY FOR MASSACHUSETTS SAYS INTERFERENCE WITH ICE OPERATIONS IS 'DISTURBING,' THREATENS ARRESTS U.S. Attorney Leah Foley wrote in a statement that elected officials, particularly those in law enforcement, are expected to be ethical, honest and law-abiding, "not self-serving." "His alleged actions are an affront to the voters and taxpayers who elected him to his position, and the many dedicated and honest public servants at the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Department. The people of Suffolk County deserve better," Foley wrote. "Public corruption remains a top priority for my administration, and we will continue to investigate and prosecute anyone who uses their position of trust and power for their own gain." FBI Boston special agent in charge Ted Docks added the act was "clear-cut corruption." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "From his very first day as Suffolk County Sheriff, Steven Tompkins sought to portray himself as a man of the people–a principled public servant and reformer, devoted to the cause of justice. That’s why it’s beyond disappointing that he’s now accused of gaming a system instituted in the interests of public safety and fair play," Docks wrote in a statement. "We believe what the Sheriff saw as an easy way to make a quick buck on the sly is clear-cut corruption under federal law. The citizens of Suffolk County deserve better, not a man who is accused of trading on his position to bankroll his own political and financial future. Public servants must be held to the highest of ethical standards, and those falling short will be rooted out." Tompkins, who faces a sentence of up to 20 years in prison for each count, will appear in Boston federal court at a later date. Alexandra Koch is a Fox News Digital journalist who covers breaking news, with a focus on high-impact events that shape national conversation and influence government response. Related Topics Boston Police and Law Enforcement Political Corruption Crime Kash Patel More from Politics 54 mins ago Democratic strategist says party lacks 'moral authority' on Texas redistricting fight 5 hours ago Trump caps off 29th week in office with peace deal, celebrating 200th day of second presidency 5 hours ago Former Elizabeth Warren foe flips script on her alliance with Mamdani: 'Party of the extreme left' 5 hours ago Columbia student says Mamdani becoming mayor would be ‘scary’ for Jewish students in New York Fox News Politics Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!