Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being ‘Wasted’ And ‘Wrestling’ Jimmy Fallon In ‘Tonight Show’ Appearance
Media Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being ‘Wasted’ And ‘Wrestling’ Jimmy Fallon In ‘Tonight Show’ Appearance [Screenshot/NBC] Nicole Silverio Media Reporter August 08, 2025 10:22 AM ET August 08, 2025 10:22 AM ET Nicole Silverio Media Reporter Font Size: Fox News host Greg Gutfeld on Thursday recalled the time when NBC’s Jimmy Fallon wrestled him inside a bar when they were both “wasted.” Fallon engaged in a friendly interview with Gutfeld on his late night show, where he is known for criticizing and mocking President Donald Trump and his supporters. During the show, Gutfeld recalled the first time he met Fallon when they were both “wasted” at an “illegal speakeasy” in Hell’s Kitchen, where he said Fallon began “wrestling” both the Fox News host and his friend. “I walk into this bar and I’m with my friend Andy. We just got off shooting something and I look around and go ‘what the hell have I got into?’ And then I see you and you look at me and you have your eyes kind of explode. And then you run towards me and you tackle me like a giant golden retriever. You’re like on top of me and so we’re wrestling and then you change and you start wrestling my buddy Andy,” Gutfeld told Fallon. (REPORT: Jimmy Fallon ‘Embarrassed’ By ‘Toxic’ Work Environment Allegations, Apologizes In Private Call) WATCH: Gutfeld then told Fallon about how he had been fired from several jobs throughout his past before getting into late night television. He also credited his mother, Jackie, for being his strongest supporter and for being involved in his career. “She was a supporter of everything I did, which is like your mom. And it’s a big deal, you know. And she saw ‘Red Eye’ take off, she saw me on ‘The Five.’ She didn’t see me for the rest of the stuff, but that’s probably well and good,” Gutfeld said. “No, she’s probably very proud. Very, very proud of you and congrats on everything you’ve done. That’s amazing,” Fallon told Gutfeld. Gutfeld’s late night show on Fox News is outperforming all the traditional shows that air on late night television, such as “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” which is set to be canceled in 2026 for financial reasons. In 2025, “Gutfeld!” averaged 3.1 million viewers through July, while Colbert and Fallon averaged 1.9 million and 1.5 million, respectively. In September 2016, Fallon engaged in a similarly lighthearted interview with Trump and even ruffled his hair in a friendly manner. The host later apologized to his angry fans who believed he let Trump off the hook. “They have a right to be mad,” Fallon told The New York Times in May 2017. “If I let anyone down, it hurt my feelings that they didn’t like it. I got it.” Fallon later stated in June 2018 that he attempted to “minimize” Trump rather than “normalize” him. The president ridiculed Fallon’s response by telling him to “be a man” and to stop “whimpering.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : fox news greg gutfeld jimmy fallon nbc news the tonight show with jimmy fallon Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator