Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas
Politics Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images Hudson Crozier DCNF Crime and Extremism Reporter August 08, 2025 10:16 AM ET August 08, 2025 10:16 AM ET Hudson Crozier DCNF Crime and Extremism Reporter Font Size: President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Thursday requiring his political appointees to review federal grants in order to prevent the “offensive waste of tax dollars” seen in prior administrations. The heads of each agency awarding grants will assign Trump’s appointees for annual reviews to ensure that federal grants “demonstrably advance the President’s policy priorities,” the executive order says. The White House listed several left-wing agendas that agencies are required not to “fund, promote, encourage, subsidize, or facilitate,” such as race-preferential programs and illegal immigration. (RELATED: Foreign Aid Agencies Awarded $27 Million To Group Helping Leftist Protesters Avoid Jail) The former United States Agency for International Development (USAID) building is seen at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center on July 08, 2025 in Washington, D.C. (Photo by Kayla Bartkowski/Getty Images) “Every tax dollar the Government spends should improve American lives or advance American interests. This often does not happen,” the order reads. “Federal grants have funded drag shows in Ecuador, trained doctoral candidates in critical race theory, and developed transgender-sexual-education programs.” Trump’s Thursday order also highlighted data indicating that the National Science Foundation (NSF) was spending a quarter of its funds on what the White House described as “diversity, equity, and inclusion and other far-left initiatives” by 2024. The order directs officials to avoid funding “denial by the grant recipient of the sex binary in humans or the notion that sex is a chosen or mutable characteristic.” More broadly, it prohibits spending taxpayer money on “any other initiatives that compromise public safety or promote anti-American values.” The Trump administration has taken a variety of actions to halt or expose what it sees as wasteful spending that promotes left-wing ideology across the globe. One of its most high-profile actions was shutting down the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), a foreign aid-focused entity that steered taxpayer money toward a giant leftist advocacy network, sex change clinics in India and other award recipients countering Trump’s agenda. “The harm imposed by problematic Federal grants does not stop at propagating absurd ideologies,” Trump’s executive order says. The directive mentions how the U.S. government funded gain-of-function virus research in Wuhan, China, at a lab that has long been suspected to be a cause of the COVID-19 pandemic. The White House also called out federal spending on AI tools for online censorship of viewpoints and on nonprofits providing free services to illegal immigrants. “The Government holds tax revenue in trust for the American people, and agencies should treat it accordingly,” the executive order declares. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : donald trump executive orders politics spending white house Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination Politics 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking US Popular Articles 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking 6 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 7 Bagel Shop That Served JD Vance Vandalized With Poorly Spelled Graffiti 8 REPORT: Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller Allegedly Living In Memory-Care Facility 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack