Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent
US Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent Apu Gomes/Getty Images Jason Hopkins Immigration Reporter August 08, 2025 10:12 AM ET August 08, 2025 10:12 AM ET Jason Hopkins Immigration Reporter Font Size: A California man is facing the prospect of decades in prison after allegedly injuring a Border Patrol agent during a violent immigration enforcement protest in June. A federal grand jury indicted Jacob Daniel Terrazas — a 30-year-old man from Paramount, California — on charges after he allegedly threw pieces of cinderblock that injured a Border Patrol agent, leaving him injured and bleeding, according to a Thursday announcement from the Department of Justice (DOJ). If convicted, Terrazas faces up to two decades in federal prison. (RELATED: Trump Orders ‘New And Highly Accurate’ Census Not Counting Illegal Migrants) The indictment is likely among many more to come after intense anti-immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) riots plagued the Los Angeles area in June and assaults against immigration agents rise across the country. “After repeatedly throwing pieces of cinderblock at law enforcement, officers detained Terrazas, who now faces up to 20 years in federal prison if convicted,” Acting United States Attorney Bill Essayli said in a public statement. LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA – JUNE 7: A Los Angeles Sheriff Department officers shot at protesters during immigration protest on June 7, 2025 in Paramount, California. (Photo by Apu Gomes/Getty Images) “We will not stand by while our brave officers get hurt,” Essayli continued. “If you’re thinking of injuring an officer or agent enforcing immigration law, think again. It’s not worth it.” Terrazas was one of several rioters who allegedly threw hard objects — including rocks and cinderblocks — at federal agents during a violent protest near an ICE facility in Paramount on June 7, according to the DOJ. The alleged rioter is accused of using a makeshift shield and nearby trees as cover while repeatedly rushing agents to hurl the pieces of cinderblock at them. One of the objects allegedly thrown by Terrazas hit a Border Patrol agent’s left shin, causing him to bleed and forcing him to leave the frontlines momentarily, according to the DOJ. An additional Border Patrol was hit by rocks during the chaos, but was left uninjured. “Terrazas – who wore a dark beanie and black mask covering the lower half of his face – and other individuals threw rocks at Border Patrol agents for approximately three hours,” the DOJ announcement stated. “Law enforcement used less-lethal force pepper bells against Terrazas and other rock throwers. Eventually, law enforcement detained, identified, and arrested Terrazas.” Essayli posted a video of the June 7 melee on social media. A federal grand jury has indicted Jacob Daniel Terrazas, 30, of Paramount, for injuring a Border Patrol officer during an anti-ICE riot on June 7. After repeatedly throwing pieces of cinderblock at law enforcement, officers detained Terrazas, who now faces up to 20 years in… pic.twitter.com/rZciySA16g — Acting U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli (@USAttyEssayli) August 7, 2025 The indictment comes after massive anti-ICE riots that engulfed Los Angeles and spread across the country. In response to federal immigration enforcement activity in early June, more than 1,000 rioters in Los Angeles surrounded an ICE building, assaulted deportation officers, slashed tires and defaced government property, according to the agency. Press footage of the violence captured anti-ICE rioters blocking traffic, defacing public property, setting cars ablaze — all while brandishing the flags of numerous foreign countries. The total damage of the anti-ICE riots across Los Angeles exceeded well over $30 million, according to the latest estimates. At the time, the Trump administration noted that assaults against ICE law enforcement had increased by 830%. On Thursday, the administration noted that this figure has since increased to 1,000%. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : border patrol department of justice immigration and customs enforcement Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator