Dem Goes On ‘Unhinged’ Racist Rant Against ‘Judas’ GOP Opponent — Then Immediately Doubles Down
Politics Dem Goes On ‘Unhinged’ Racist Rant Against ‘Judas’ GOP Opponent — Then Immediately Doubles Down (Photo by John Sciulli/Getty Images for The Museum of Contemporary Art (MOCA)) Adam Pack Reporter August 08, 2025 10:02 AM ET August 08, 2025 10:02 AM ET Adam Pack Reporter Font Size: Democratic California congressional candidate Esther Kim Varet is doubling down on her racist attack against Republican California Rep. Young Kim, during which she characterized the three-term lawmaker’s accent as “so embarrassing.” Kim Varet, a Democratic challenger vying in a crowded primary to unseat Rep. Kim in California’s Orange County during the midterms, drew Republican backlash after calling her GOP opponent a “Judas” to the Korean-American community and mocking the fact that Rep. Kim speaks English as a second language. Despite multiple condemnations of her “unhinged” rant, Kim Varet has not attempted to walk back her racially-charged post attacking Rep. Kim’s immigrant background — and suggested the initial post was due to her inexperience as a political candidate and unfiltered personality. (RELATED: Jasmine Crockett Calls Trump Supporters Mentally Ill — Then Demands Bipartisanship In Next Breath) “I will be the first to admit that as a first time candidate, I’m sloppy,” Kim Varet wrote on the social media platform Instagram Thursday evening amid backlash. “I am not a politician.” “I wear my heart on my sleeve — and I lack a filter,” the Democrat added. “Im [sic] trying my best, guys.” Kim Varet continued her attack on the social media platform Friday morning calling Rep. Kim a “Korean Judas.” WASHINGTON, DC – FEBRUARY 11: Rep. Young Kim (R-CA) arrives for a House Republican Conference Meeting at the U.S. Capitol on February 11, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Kent Nishimura/Getty Images) Kim Varet, the child of Korean immigrants, has mocked Rep. Kim’s accent and dubbed the South Korea-born lawmaker an “ESL puppet,” in a reference to the “English as a second language” program for individuals whose first language is not English. Rep. Kim was born in South Korea and immigrated to the United States with her family when she was 12 years old. “You’re a power-hungry Korean-born immigrant that has sold your conscience to the devil—at the price of all hard-working immigrants,” Kim Varet fumed in an Instagram post hammering Rep. Kim’s support for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “You don’t work hard, you and your husband are the biggest GRIFTERS representing the swamp—putrid and pussing from the rot that is your soul.” “You don’t even speak English well enough to hold a single cohesive argument. You ESL puppet. So embarrassing,” Kim Varet continued. “A real life Judas to our community.” As of Friday morning, the post is still live on Kim Varet’s Instagram account. The National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC), House Republicans’ campaign arm, torched Kim Varet as a “vile extremist” who will be rejected at the ballot box by California voters. “Unhinged Democrat Esther Kim Varet is a hate-filled bigot who embodies the worst of today’s political discourse,” NRCC spokesperson Christian Martinez said in a statement. “Californians will reject this vile extremist who has no business representing them in Congress.” Kim Varet continued her attack on Rep. Kim’s immigrant status in a second social media post Thursday evening following the NRCC calling on two California House Democrats to denounce the candidate’s “racist meltdown.” A since-deleted post from Kim Varet’s Instagram account doubling down on her racist attack against Rep. Kim. (Screenshot) “And I stand by my assessment of @repyoungkim’s English skills,” Kim Varet wrote in a since-deleted post on Instagram. “Prove me wrong.” The political newcomer also suggested in the same now-deleted post that Martinez was not a “REAL latino” for working to elect Republicans. Rep. Kim defended her immigrant background — and her accent — in a statement to the Daily Caller News Foundation. “My story is not unique — it’s the story of so many Korean Americans and immigrants across the country who are proud Americans and are making our communities better every day,” Rep. Kim said in a statement to the DCNF. “I’m proud of my accent and will keep using my voice to protect the American Dream for future generations.” Kim Varet is an art dealer who owns several galleries in the United States and South Korea. She appears well-positioned to win the crowded primary and has roughly $1.3 million in the bank, according to recent Federal Election Commission filings. Rep. Kim ended the second quarter with nearly $4 million cash-on-hand. The Cook Political report rates the contest in California’s 40th Congressional District as “Lean Republican.” A spokesperson for Kim Varet did not immediately respond to the DCNF’s request for comment. Andi Shae Napier contributed to this report. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : esther kim varet house republicans nrcc young kim Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 ROOKE: One Of The Largest School Districts In Country Was Failing For Years. Then Republicans Took Over Education 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 Scott Jennings Doesn't Let CNN Panelist Off The Hook When She Calls ICE 'Gestapo' During Fiery Exchange Media 4 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School US 5 Jasmine Crockett Floated Loophole To Help Bankroll Texas Dems Fleeing State Elections Popular Articles 1 ROOKE: One Of The Largest School Districts In Country Was Failing For Years. Then Republicans Took Over 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 Scott Jennings Doesn't Let CNN Panelist Off The Hook When She Calls ICE 'Gestapo' During Fiery Exchange 4 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School 5 Jasmine Crockett Floated Loophole To Help Bankroll Texas Dems Fleeing State 6 Trump Orders Nuclear Submarines To 'Appropriate Regions' In Response To Russian Official's Statements 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 9 Suspects In Gruesome Cincinnati Beating Indicted By Grand Jury 10 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly