STEVE MILLOY Murrill’s Misstep How Louisiana’s AG Is Fueling Left’s War On Oil
Big Tent Ideas STEVE MILLOY: Murrill’s Misstep: How Louisiana’s AG Is Fueling Left’s War On Oil OPINION Chandan Khanna/AFP via Getty Images Steve Milloy Contributor August 08, 2025 1:56 AM ET August 08, 2025 1:56 AM ET Steve Milloy Contributor Font Size: It’s a dark day for Louisiana conservatives when the state’s top law enforcement officer takes up the mantle for the Left’s climate lawfare agenda. Attorney General Liz Murrill, elected with the promise of advancing President Trump’s agenda, now sides with Democrat-aligned trial lawyers in an absurd campaign to pin the blame for Gulf Coast erosion on oil and gas producers operating in the state. In May, a local jury returned a $745 million dollar verdict against Chevron that the attorney general’s office intervened in as a third-party plaintiff. And there are dozens of other similar cases pending. The Louisiana land loss cases—now heading to the Supreme Court—are cut from the same cloth as the climate cases being litigated in deep blue states and municipalities across the country. Like those cases, the primary objective is extracting money, not fixing coastal erosion. Nothing says this louder than the state’s decision this month to scrap its largest coastal restoration project to date. (RELATED: Trump’s Plan To ‘Drill Baby Drill’ Could Be Kneecapped By Lawsuits In Red State, Letter Warns) This isn’t “justice,” it’s a shakedown. Left-wing trial lawyers—pocketing huge contingency fees—target companies like Chevron in order to destroy the oil and gas industry in the United States. To do this, they are rewriting history by blaming industry for century-old, government-made problems. And Attorney General Murrill is playing right along. The true story of Louisiana’s coast isn’t one of corporate villainy; it’s the saga of the 1927 Mississippi River floods and the government’s response. After catastrophic floods, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers built extensive levees and dikes to protect communities and farmland. This flood control infrastructure, necessary as it was, hampered the Mississippi’s natural delivery of silt to the delta—sediment crucial for replenishing barrier islands and wetlands lost to natural erosion. How much sediment are we talking? In the late 1800s, as much as 750 million cubic feet of Mississippi silt reached the Gulf yearly—enough to bury a square mile under 27 feet of earth. These vital deposits were systematically reduced by federal levying. The scientific and historical reality is that without that silt, the coast subsides and erodes, independent of oil industry activity. Multiple university studies and even prior lawsuits by Louisiana politicians blamed not Chevron, but the very federal government whose flood control policies turned the Mississippi from a land-building powerhouse into a silt-starved trickle. In 1942, President Roosevelt issued a wartime executive order establishing the Petroleum Administration for War to help win World War II. Oil production dramatically increased in Louisiana in order to comply with the federal mandate maximizing petroleum production. The Louisiana State and Local Coastal Resources Management Act of 1980, further legitimized the wartime projects’ necessity and legitimacy, explicitly grandfathering them into the permitting process. Yet, Murrill’s deception doesn’t end there. Recently, she went as far to claim that Chevron had illegally dumped four billion gallons of “toxic” waste in Louisiana’s marsh – a talking point that appears to be taken straight from leftwing trial lawyers’ playbooks. In truth, the so-called toxic waste was in fact produced water, which comes with every oil and gas production. It’s primarily salty water that is separated from oil. It was legal to discharge produced water into saline water in Louisiana—Chevron even got a permit from Louisiana for the discharge. Every state and federal agency overseeing its operations approved of its discharge. It was not until the state conspired with contingency fee lawyers pushing the Left’s climate cultism did any agency allege that the discharge was unlawful. This bayou shakedown isn’t just legally suspect—it’s economically destructive. The oil and gas industry contributes $77.7 billion to the state’s economy annually, representing 25% of the total gross domestic product (GDP), and the industry supports 306,750 jobs, accounting for 15% of the state’s total employment. Tax revenue from the energy sector made up more than 20% – or $3.48 billion – of the state’s 2024 fiscal year budget, helping to fund public education, Medicaid, public safety and yes, environmental and natural resources. The irony is biting. Less than a year after Chevron abandoned California’s punitive climate regime, the company faces echo-chamber litigation in the supposedly “red” state of Louisiana. Republican Governor Jeff Landry and Murrill’s joint prosecution agreements with Democrat trial lawyers, some of whom have donated hundreds of thousands collectively to their super PACs, risk billions in new Louisiana energy investments. Energy producers are not going to invest in projects that invite junk science lawsuits. If these baseless lawsuits succeed, the only winners will be the left-wing trial lawyers and liberal moneyed interests who want to destroy American energy production—not the people of Louisiana, and certainly not the coastal communities in true need of real, science-based solutions. If the shakedown wasn’t already obvious, the state’s recent cancellation of its largest coastal restoration project—the $3 billion Mid-Barataria Sediment Diversion—makes clear this lawsuit isn’t about fixing erosion; it’s about extracting money. If Louisiana’s Republicans want to avoid becoming indistinguishable from their blue-state counterparts, they must reject this leftist climate crusade. The real path forward requires confronting nature, history, and engineering—not scapegoating the industries that built and sustained modern America. Enough with the political theater. Restore common sense, defend real science, and put an end to this Louisiana blues act. Steve Milloy is a biostatistician and lawyer, publishes JunkScience.com and is on X @JunkScience. The views and opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author and do not reflect the official position of the Daily Caller News Foundation. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : chevron jeff landry liz murrill louisiana Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator