Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes
Media Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes (Screenshot/Fox News) Mariane Angela News Reporter August 08, 2025 12:17 AM ET August 08, 2025 12:17 AM ET Mariane Angela News Reporter Font Size: Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk said Thursday that President Donald Trump’s proposed census changes could strip Democrats of up to 20 electoral votes. Trump ordered the Commerce Department to update the 2020 Census to count only U.S. citizens, a move that could cut Democrat-held seats before the 2026 midterms. During an appearance on “Jesse Watters Primetime,” Kirk said Trump’s plan to adjust the census could significantly shift the political map by reducing the influence of Democratic Party strongholds. “President Donald Trump announcing the new census. What that would do is that would also potentially subtract 20 electoral votes from Democrats in the Electoral College system as congressional seat appropriation is directly correlated with Electoral College totals,” Kirk told Jesse Watters. Kirk said that Democrats fear a resurgent Republican Party under Trump, describing the former president’s strategy as “smash mouth politics” aimed at securing lasting electoral advantage. WATCH: “This is smash mouth politics. You see, Democrats, they don’t hate gerrymandering. They hate losing, and they’re very afraid that finally the Republican Party, led by President Donald Trump, is one that is playing to win,” Kirk said. “We witnessed Donald Trump have to face 700 years in federal prison. They were playing for keeps during the last presidential election, and now we won that election with great records and great margins. And now we’re just trying to redistrict a singular state to be more representative of the Hispanic population in that single state, and they’re talking about adding stars to the flag and adding Puerto Rico.” Kirk said the GOP has adopted a new mindset under Trump, abandoning neutrality to confront opposition and focusing solely on winning. (RELATED: Newt Gingrich Says Democrats Did Something Not Seen Since The 1930s) “Deeper than this, though, this is a new mentality. This is not a Republican Party that is just playing for neutrality or trying to protect broken norms. Instead, we are playing to win. We know we are up against a vicious opposition, one that might play a good game on television every so often or saying that they’re working for the American people, but, deep down, we know what they are,” Kirk said. Kirk said Trump’s movement embodies a nationwide resolve, vowing to “fight fire with fire” and take back control to save the country. “We know what they represent, and President Donald Trump and this movement — and you see it across the country with the resolute attitude in Texas — is that we are now going to fight fire with fire. We’re gonna play offense, and we’re finally gonna be back in the driver’s seat to save this country,” Kirk added. In March, the Federation for American Immigration Reform estimated that 18.6 million illegal migrants live in the U.S., with population growth driven almost entirely by legal and illegal immigration. The Census Bureau’s current estimate puts the nation’s population at over 342 million, and, in 2022, it admitted to “significantly” miscounting the population in a quarter of the states — errors that directly affect the distribution of congressional seats and political power. Trump’s call for a new census excluding illegal migrants will likely trigger legal battles, as his 2020 attempt faced multiple lawsuits. Democrats have acknowledged that including noncitizens benefits them politically, with New York Democratic Rep. Yvette Clarke admitting she welcomed immigrants for “redistricting purposes.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : census charlie kirk democrats donald trump Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts