Disney Settles Star Wars Actress Gina Carano’s Lawsuit
Entertainment Disney Settles Star Wars Actress Gina Carano’s Lawsuit (Photo by Emma McIntyre/Getty Images) Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 07, 2025 11:30 PM ET August 07, 2025 11:30 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: Actress Gina Carano reached a settlement with Disney and Lucasfilm Thursday after filing a lawsuit against the company in 2024 following her firing from the show “The Mandalorian.” In February 2024, Carano filed the lawsuit, alleging she had been wrongfully terminated and discriminated against. Posting a statement Thursday on X, Carano announced that the more-than-year-long legal battle had officially ended, calling the settlement the “best outcome for all parties involved” and thanking billionaire Elon Musk and her lawyers. “I hope this brings some healing to the force,” Carano wrote. “I am humbled and grateful to God for His love and grace in this outcome. I’d like to thank you all for your unrelenting support throughout my life and career, you’ve been the heartbeat that has kept my story alive. I hope to make you proud.” “I am excited to flip the page and move onto the next chapter. My desires remain in the arts, which is where I hope you will join me,” Carano added. Carano posted her initial announcement of the lawsuit last year on X, stating that Musk would provide lawyers for her after he said he would offer legal representation to those who “had been fired from using the platform (X) for exercising your right to free speech.” (RELATED: ‘Grey’s Anatomy’ Star Reveals Shocking Health Diagnosis) The lawsuit stemmed from Carano’s February 2021 firing from Lucasfilm’s Star Wars series “The Mandalorian.” The actress had been promptly let go from the show after “sharing a post on social media implying that being a Republican today is like being Jewish during the Holocaust,” according to The Hollywood Reporter. At the time of her termination, Lucasfilm released a statement saying there were “no plans for her to be” employed by the company in the future. US actress Gina Carano arrives for Disney+ World Premiere of “The Mandalorian” at El Capitan theatre in Hollywood on November 13, 2019. (Photo by NICK AGRO/AFP via Getty Images) “Gina Carano is not currently employed by Lucasfilm and there are no plans for her to be in the future. Nevertheless, her social media posts denigrating people based on their cultural and religious identities are abhorrent and unacceptable,” the statement read. In addition to being let go from the show, Carano’s representation, United Talent Management, also dropped her. In response to the company’s statement at the time, Carano called out the “smear campaign ” against her, alleging she had been “hunted down from everything” she posted and liked on social media. “Nothing could be further from the truth. The truth is I was being hunted down from everything I posted to every post I liked because I was not in line with the acceptable narrative of the time,” Carano wrote in 2024. “My words were consistently twisted to demonize & dehumanize me as an alt right wing extremist. It was a bullying smear campaign aimed at silencing, destroying & making an example out of me.” While details of the settlement have not been released, a Lucasfilm spokesperson told Variety that they “look forward to identifying opportunities to work together” with Carano. “The Walt Disney Company and Lucasfilm are pleased to announce that we have reached an agreement with Gina Carano to resolve the issues in her pending lawsuit against the companies. Ms. Carano was always well respected by her directors, co-stars and staff, and she worked hard to perfect her craft while treating her colleagues with kindness and respect. With this lawsuit concluded, we look forward to identifying opportunities to work together with Ms. Carano in the near future,” a Lucasfilm spokesperson said. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : disney gina carano lawsuit star wars Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People Editorial 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance Media 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 OPINION INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car 6 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 7 James Carville Takes Down Epstein Episode After Letter From Melania Trump's Attorney 8 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 9 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump