Pete Hegseth Declares US Military ‘Will Not Be Dependent On China Or Anybody Else’ For Supplies
Media Pete Hegseth Declares US Military ‘Will Not Be Dependent On China Or Anybody Else’ For Supplies (Screenshot/Fox News) Mariane Angela News Reporter August 07, 2025 10:29 PM ET August 07, 2025 10:29 PM ET Mariane Angela News Reporter Font Size: Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said on Fox News Thursday that the U.S. military will end decades of reliance on foreign suppliers. A report warned that China’s dominance over more than 80% of the global lithium-ion battery supply threatens America’s defense industry. During an appearance on “The Will Cain Show,” Hegseth said that President Donald Trump’s administration has “gotten after it” from day one, moving at “hyperdrive” to ensure America can operate and fight decisively without outside dependence. “We will not be dependent on China. We won’t be dependent on anybody else. The American military will be able to independently operate and operate decisively. We have to. And there’s been neglect for decades,” Hegseth told host Will Cain. “President Trump has pointed out to be the best. You can’t depend on anyone else. But America first doesn’t mean America alone. We’ll stand alongside our allies, but we’re going to be able to source our munitions, our minerals ourselves.” Hegseth credited a “big, beautiful bill” that provides billions for defense investments, including the Iron Dome missile defense system, hypersonic weapons, long-range drones, submarines, and border security. He stressed that every component of the military’s supply chain must be produced domestically. WATCH: “And we’ve got the best equipment, the best capabilities in the world. We’re on hyperdrive. The one big, beautiful bill that was passed gives us $150 billion more to invest in Golden Dome, in hypersonics, in securing our border, in long-range drones,” Hegseth said. “You name it, submarines. We’re investing in it.” Hegseth said the U.S. is rapidly rebuilding its defense supply chain to ensure every component is sourced domestically. (RELATED: Hegseth’s Pentagon Pushes Troop Quality Of Life Improvements Up On Priority List) “It’ll be sourced in America. Our logistics train, where we get all the aspects of the things we make has to be sourced here. We’re doing it. Our allies and adversaries understand that, and that only makes us more independent, more able to put America first,” Hegseth said. The Trump administration has taken steps to reduce U.S. reliance on China for rare earth elements like lithium. The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies (FDD) warns that America’s adversaries could cripple the economy by withholding these critical materials. “If we cannot access the raw materials and components that we need to drive our economy, our adversaries will be able to defeat us by simply withholding those indispensable inputs,” the FDD report says. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : big beautiful bill defense military pete hegseth the will cain show Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive US 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School US 4 Matt Towery Shares What Two Things Can Hurt Republicans Most In 2026 Media 5 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health Popular Articles 1 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School 4 Matt Towery Shares What Two Things Can Hurt Republicans Most In 2026 5 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 6 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 7 John Deere To Invest $20 Billion Into US Operations 8 FBI Agrees To Hunt Fugitive Dems Fleeing Texas Redistricting Vote 9 House Dems Trash America At Radical Summit In Mexico