‘They Were Blowing Us Off’ Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up
Media ‘They Were Blowing Us Off’: Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up [Screenshot/Fox News/"The Ingraham Angle"] Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 07, 2025 9:57 PM ET August 07, 2025 9:57 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: The victim of a viral Cincinnati street fight, Holly, alleged Thursday on Fox News’ “The Ingraham Angle” that police officers neglected to take her name and statement after she was seen knocked unconscious and left in the middle of the street. Video footage of a brawl at Elm and Fourth streets circulated online July 27, showing Holly knocked unconscious while attempting to stop the fight. Host Laura Ingraham said Holly woke up and left the scene not in an ambulance but in an Uber. (RELATED: Cincinnati Police Chief Who Scolded People For Sharing Video Of Black Mob Being Sued For Racial Discrimination) “Yeah, I did,” Holly said. “And my face was still completely bloodied. All of our faces, the victims, when we were talking to the two police officers that did finally show up, they did not call for backup. They did not call for [an] ambulance. I just remember, ‘Finally my Uber, after all of this, my Uber had finally showed up.'” “I just remember the police officers were being very nonchalant, and they were kind of blowing us off, kind of like, ‘OK, you were in a fight, cool,'” Holly added. “There were still a hundred people on the streets, like there were still people gathered everywhere. Then seeing us bloody and some of their shirts were torn, they didn’t even get a statement from me. Actually, they didn’t even take down my name, come to think of it.” Through footage online, the fight started with four men. One man was repeatedly stomped on. As the video continues, Holly is later seen getting punched by a man, appearing to be knocked unconscious while lying in the street. Ingraham then jumped in, appearing shocked by Holly’s accusations and asked if officers took a statement from her or wrote down her name and address. “They didn’t even ask my name, no,” Holly said. “That’s in one of the victims, it took him three times of kind of being very persistent, like aggressive, being like, ‘My name is, write this down.'” WATCH: “That’s when I got in the Uber, I said, ‘Police don’t care. I wasn’t even going to file a police report because I was like, what’s the point? They’re not going to look into this. They don’t care. They didn’t even want to take down my name.'” Holly continued to allege that Cincinnati police had not interviewed anyone from the crowd that night, adding that she saw officials allegedly “leaning up against their police car” with their “arms crossed.” “They were like, you know, I don’t remember the words they were saying, but just by their demeanor and their attitude, it was a disgrace, absolute disgrace,” Holly said. “And that’s when I was like, ‘I’m not going to stick around for this.’ It was so offensive on so many levels, the way we were treated.” “I just went home and went to bed and was like, ‘I just need to sleep this off.’ Which is wild because I had a concussion and literally blood all over my face,” Holly said. Following the viral incident, Cincinnati Police Chief Teresa Theetge held a press conference announcing that five people were charged in connection to the brutal street fight, with more charges on the way. Theetge received backlash following her statements as she had said the videos of the brawl did not depict the entire incident. The Cincinnati Police Department did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : cincinnati laura ingraham street fight victim Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator