Texas Democrat Judge Derails Meeting With Bizarre Meltdown Over Failed Tax Hike
Media Texas Democrat Judge Derails Meeting With Bizarre Meltdown Over Failed Tax Hike [Screenshot/YouTube/KHOU11] Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 07, 2025 9:05 PM ET August 07, 2025 9:05 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: Democrat Texas Judge Lina Hidalgo derailed a meeting Thursday at the Harris County Commissioners Court over a failed tax hike, encouraging children to descend on the courtroom to ask commissioners how they planned to vote. A tax increase proposal, supported by Hidalgo, was brought forward Thursday to fund certain child care and education training programs previously covered by COVID-era funding, according to Houston Public Media. During the meeting, Commissioner Tom Ramsey was seen in footage from KHOU11’s YouTube page saying he would vote no to put forward the proposal on the next ballot, casting doubt on the county’s budget being able to afford the programs. Quickly pushing back after his response, Hidalgo made her first call for the children to come forward and ask each member for their vote. (RELATED: FBI Agrees To Hunt Fugitive Dems Fleeing Texas Redistricting Vote) “What we’re going to do is bring the kids here and ask each member yes or no,” Hidalgo said. Commissioner Adrian Garcia then attempted to call a point of order, saying they were proceeding with the debate “improperly” because a motion had been made with “no second.” “I didn’t make a motion, I just read what it’s gonna be,” Hidalgo fired back. “I didn’t say no — OK, well I take it back.” Continuing on, Hidalgo then called on Commissioner Lesley Briones to state her points. “Yes, thank you. Especially to all the kids who — ” Briones began before Hidalgo began to shout for the kids to descend upon the courtroom. “Kids come on down! Let’s see if she says yes or no,” Hidalgo shouted. “Come on down over here! Come on, come on, come on because this is not about politics. This is about kids! Come on down!” WATCH: Briones was heard attempting to halt the interruption, saying that education is “about respect,” as some of the children got up from their seats. With Hidalgo being reminded of the courtroom’s decorum, Briones pushed on to make her arguments on the tax increase. Shortly after the commissioner began to speak, however, Hidalgo interrupted again, leading to a meltdown. “Excuse me, judge, please be respectful,” Briones said. “Education is truth telling! Don’t give the kids this example of making things up. This has been going on for four years,” Hidalgo shouted at Briones while holding up signs of the proposal. Briones attempted to continue on with her arguments against the “half baked” proposal, while Hidalgo was seen arguing back and holding the signs in front of her face. “We have to wait 20 years to know if these kids graduate — ” Hidalgo was heard saying as “point of order” calls were overheard. Ramsey then stepped in, calling out Hidalgo’s decorum. As Briones attempted to continue, Hidalgo carried on with her interruptions. Despite multiple attempts to rein in Hidalgo, the Democrat judge pressed on. With the courtroom in chaos following Briones’ final arguments, Hidalgo appeared to make a motion, only to take it back once again. “I’m just going to say, I’m so disappointed, obviously. On behalf of the thousands of families in Harris County whose babies, zero to four, will stop receiving crucial education and to think those families and their children will lose access to childcare and education because of political decision making. And a refusal to trust the voters to decide this important issue, there’s absolutely no reason why we can’t simply ask the voters what they would like to see,” Hidalgo said. “The program has been evaluated. The offices have been working on this for four years. I’ve been talking about a bond election since 2019. Unlike Travis County, we actually ran the program before putting it to the voters — ” Hidalgo added before being cut off. Attempting to decide whether she had made a motion, Hidalgo rushed to call the time and ordered a 10-minute break. During the break, Hidalgo reportedly stepped out to speak with reporters, discussing how she had been disappointed by the commissioners’ decision, according to the Houston Chronicle. Harris County is facing an estimated $270 million deficit, Houston Public Media reported. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : democrat houston meltdown texas Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts