Pam Bondi Offers $50 Million Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator
World Pam Bondi Offers $50 Million Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter August 07, 2025 8:34 PM ET August 07, 2025 8:34 PM ET Hailey Gomez General Assignment Reporter Font Size: U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi said Thursday that the Department of Justice (DOJ) and State Department are offering a $50 million reward for information leading to the arrest of Venezuela’s socialist dictator Nicolás Maduro. The hunt for information on Maduro began during President Donald Trump’s first administration in 2020 when his DOJ announced their reward for information on Maduro. In a video press statement posted to Bondi’s X account, the attorney general announced the “historic” reward, which has risen from its original $15 million in 2020. (RELATED: Smartmatic Executive Accused Of Bribing Top Venezuelan Election Official) “Maduro uses foreign terrorist organizations like TDA, Sinaloa, and Cartel of the Sons to bring deadly drugs and violence into our country. To date, the DEA has seized 30 tons of cocaine linked to Maduro and his associates with nearly seven tons linked to Maduro himself, which represents a primary source of income for the deadly cartels based in Venezuela and Mexico,” Bondi said. “He is one of the largest narco-traffickers in the world and a threat to our national security. Therefore, we’ve doubled his reward to $50 million,” Bondi added. “Under President Trump’s leadership, Maduro will not escape justice, and he will be held accountable for his despicable crimes.” Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro (C) waves to supporters next to his wife Cilia Flores (C-R) as he celebrates the results of the parliamentary and regional elections. (Photo by FEDERICO PARRA/AFP via Getty Images) In addition to the reward offered during Trump’s first administration, the DOJ at the time also announced indictments against Maduro and members of his inner circle for turning Venezuela into a “narco-terrorism” enterprise, according to CNBC. The State Department said Maduro’s 2020 indictment from the Southern District of New York included charges of “narco-terrorism, conspiracy to import cocaine, possession of machine guns and destructive devices, and conspiracy to possess machine guns and destructive devices.” In January, the DOJ announced an increase in the information reward, raising it from $15 million to $25 million before the latest announcement. Maduro’s country erupted into chaos in 2024 as mass protests broke out after he declared himself president in the 2024 presidential election. At the time of the July 2024 election, Maduro’s opposition claimed independent polling showed they had won 70% of the vote, beating Maduro. “We won, and everyone knows it,” opposition leader Maria Corina told reporters in 2024, according to CNN. “The entire international community knows what happened in Venezuela and how people voted for change.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : department of justice nicolas maduro pam bondi venezuela Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator