Bagel Shop That Served JD Vance Vandalized With Poorly Spelled Graffiti
US Bagel Shop That Served JD Vance Vandalized With Poorly Spelled Graffiti (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images) Mariane Angela News Reporter August 07, 2025 7:30 PM ET August 07, 2025 7:30 PM ET Mariane Angela News Reporter Font Size: Vandals defaced a bagel shop that Vice President JD Vance visited in July, spray-painting a politically charged message riddled with spelling errors, a Reddit post revealed Thursday. Video circulated that month showing Vance visiting Golden Bagel in San Diego during a stop in the city. A photo posted on Reddit with the title “08/05: Someone tagged the bagel shop JD Vance visited” showed the graffiti. “FACISTS & COLLABOR NOT WELCOME IN PQ,” the graffiti read. The Reddit user who shared the image said vandals also tagged several nearby homes. “Last night, someone tagged the bagel shop that J.D. Vance visited last month. I guess they also allegedly tagged some homes as well,” the user wrote. U.S. Vice President JD Vance speaks at Metallus, a metal products manufacturer, on July 28, 2025 in Canton, Ohio. (Photo by Maddie McGarvey-Pool/Getty Images) Usha Vance grew up in San Diego’s Rancho Peñasquitos neighborhood, often called “PQ,” where her parents still live. Her mother Dr. Lakshmi Chilukuri serves as provost of Sixth College at UC San Diego, and her father Krish Chilukuri is a former engineering professor at San Diego State University. Similarly, vandals defaced Trump Tower in New York City in April, when a climate protester spray-painted “USA” over the presidential insignia inside the building. The protester then unfurled a banner reading “Game Over” before authorities arrested him on the spot. (RELATED: Anti-Musk Group Behind ‘Day Of Action’ Against Tesla Offers Tips On ‘Jail Support,’ Finding ‘Target’s’ Home Address) In Vermont, vandals spray-painted anti-Trump messages on a Norwich University bridge, linking the former president to fascism. The graffiti included slogans such as “MAGA = New Fascist Party” and calls to “End White Supremacy,” along with quotes from Malcolm X. On July 4, vandals also targeted the Manassas Republican Party Headquarters, spray-painting the word “Fash” in white capital letters on a window and coating the door handle and lock. They also stole an American flag and left what appeared to be urine splattered on the window. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : jd vance san diego vandalism Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator