Biden’s Secretary Of State Returns To The Swamp
Politics Biden Secretary Of State Antony Blinken Returns To The Swamp (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) Reagan Reese White House Correspondent August 07, 2025 6:45 PM ET August 07, 2025 6:45 PM ET Reagan Reese White House Correspondent Font Size: Former President Joe Biden’s Secretary of State Antony Blinken has returned to the swamp several months after leaving the government. Since the conclusion of the Biden administration, Blinken has kept a low profile, doing some speaking engagements and penning an op-ed. But now the former secretary of state has joined the board of directors at the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning D.C. think tank, according to the organization’s website. (RELATED: Kamala’s Failed Campaign Team Struggling To Worm Its Way Back Into The Swamp) In other news from alums of Biden’s foreign policy team: Tony Blinken quietly joined the board of the Center for American Progress, a key hub for Democrats & Brett McGurk is claiming credit for Trump’s Iran strikes, drawing applause from one of the biggest critics of Biden+Obama. pic.twitter.com/xhkfv37V7v — Akbar Shahid Ahmed (@AkbarSAhmed) June 26, 2025 The Center for American Progress was called “Obama’s Idea Factory in Washington” by TIME Magazine in 2008. During the Biden administration, the organization helped staff the federal government, Fox News reported, citing the think tank’s correspondence. Under issues it advocates for, the organization indicates on its website that it is in favor of abortion access, which it says are “under attack” by “[p]olitical extremists and far-right activists.” The organization has backed policies promoting diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) ideology initiatives, according to Influence Watch. U.S. President Joe Biden (R) delivers remarks on the recently announced cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas while joined by Vice President Kamala Harris (L) and Secretary of State Antony Blinken (C) in the Cross Hall of the White House on January 15, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images) Former Biden aide Neera Tanden is president and CEO of the Center for American Progress. Tanden testified in front of Congress in June that she directed use of the autopen while not knowing exactly who provided final approval, according to a statement by Republican House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer. Several former Biden administration officials have landed cushy jobs in D.C. and elsewhere since leaving the government. Former Biden Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo is at the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) as a distinguished fellow. Biden’s former acting director of the Office of Personnel Management Rob Shriver joined Democracy Forward in January as a managing director, per his LinkedIn. Tags : antony blinken center for american progress joe biden secretary of state Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn