Suspect Dead After Allegedly Opening Fire On Pennsylvania State Troopers Responding To Call
US Suspect Dead After Allegedly Opening Fire On Pennsylvania State Troopers Responding To Call Image not from story. Wikimedia Commons/Public/Raymond Wambsgans, CC BY-SA 2.0 Fiona McLoughlin Contributor August 07, 2025 6:16 PM ET August 07, 2025 6:16 PM ET Fiona McLoughlin Contributor Font Size: Two Pennsylvania State Police Troopers were shot when officers responded to an incident Thursday in Thompson Township, Susquehanna County, officials said. A male suspect allegedly opened fire on the responding troopers, injuring two of them, the Pennsylvania State Police (PSP) said in a press release. Troopers Joseph Perechinsky and William Jenkins both allegedly “sustained serious injuries as a result of the gunfire and were airlifted to a medical facility for emergency treatment.” The incident occurred in a rural area shortly following 11:00 a.m., state police Col. Christopher Paris said to the press, according to The Associated Press (AP). (RELATED: Video Shows Moment Suspect Allegedly Fires On Illinois State Trooper) Officials secured a perimeter around the scene. The suspect allegedly carried a rifle and would not comply with officials. The man was “ultimately shot and killed during the incident,” state police said. The injured troopers remain in the hospital but their conditions are stable, officials noted. Authorities said there is no danger to the public and the incident remains under investigation. PSP is investigating after two Troopers were shot today while responding to a call in NE Susquehanna County. They were both transported to local hospitals. The public should avoid the incident area, located on Route 171, approximately five miles north of the town of Thompson. — PA State Police (@PAStatePolice) August 7, 2025 Paris said the troopers were conducting a welfare check, the AP reported. “And there was additional information about shots being fired. We will have more information about the specifics of how that all came in. But upon their arrival, they were immediately fired upon and ambushed. They are very lucky to be alive,” he continued. One of the two troopers used a tourniquet on his colleague and another trooper stepped in to rescue them, Paris told reporters. One trooper required surgery after being shot in the chest and back, ABC News reported, citing officials. The other trooper was wounded in his arm. Paris said the troopers’ vehicles were struck by the gunfire, the AP reported. Information about the suspect’s identity was not available as of late Thursday afternoon. Tags : pennsylvania pennsylvania state police shooting Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now Health 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes Media 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy Popular Articles 1 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 2 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 3 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 4 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 5 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 6 Kamala Harris Posts Cringe TikTok Stating She Has Not Been 'Drinking Margaritas On The Beach' 7 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 8 Anti-ICE Rioter Faces Serious Prison Time After Allegedly Hurling Cinderblock At Border Agent 9 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 10 Pam Bondi Offers Massive Payout For Capture Of Socialist Dictator