Trump Admin Urges Supreme Court To Let Los Angeles Immigration Raids Continue
Politics Trump Admin Urges Supreme Court To Let Los Angeles Immigration Raids Continue (Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images) Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter August 07, 2025 6:16 PM ET August 07, 2025 6:16 PM ET Katelynn Richardson Investigative Reporter Font Size: The Trump administration on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to allow immigration enforcement in Los Angeles to continue unhindered. A district court judge should not be able to “micromanage” immigration enforcement in a district where one in every 10 individuals is an illegal alien, the administration’s emergency application argues. “Not only is the Central District the Nation’s most populous district overall; at best estimate, it harbors some 2 million illegal aliens out of its total population of nearly 20 million people, making it by far the largest destination for illegal aliens,” the application states. “Given the Administration’s commitment to enforcing the Nation’s immigration laws—under which illegal aliens are subject to investigative stops and detention to facilitate removal—it should be no surprise that the Los Angeles area is a top enforcement priority.” LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA – JULY 04: U.S. Marines protect the U.S. Customs and Border Protector cars while they leave the Edward R. Roybal Federal and Detention Center building during a protest against U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids and the presence of the U.S. military in civilian spaces on July 4, 2025 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Apu Gomes/Getty Images) U.S. District Judge Maame Ewusi-Mensah Frimpong, a Biden appointee, issued an order restricting the administration’s enforcement in July, blocking them from relying solely on race, location, type of work or speaking Spanish when making immigration stops. (RELATED: Los Angeles ICE Riots Cost City $20 Million — And Counting) “Needless to say, no one thinks that speaking Spanish or working in construction always creates reasonable suspicion,” the application said. “Nor does anyone suggest those are the only factors federal agents ever consider. But in many situations, such factors—alone or in combination—can heighten the likelihood that someone is unlawfully present in the United States, above and beyond the 1-in-10 baseline odds in the District.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : los angeles supreme court trump administration Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People Editorial 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance Media 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 OPINION INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car 6 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 7 James Carville Takes Down Epstein Episode After Letter From Melania Trump's Attorney 8 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 9 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump