ROOKE French President Takes From Trump’s Playbook, Revokes Visas For All Diplomats From Ally Country
Opinion ROOKE: French President Takes Page From Trump’s Playbook, Targets Key Privilege For Country’s Diplomats OPINION Photo by SEBASTIEN BOZON/AFP via Getty Images Mary Rooke Commentary and Analysis Writer August 07, 2025 5:47 PM ET August 07, 2025 5:47 PM ET Mary Rooke Commentary and Analysis Writer Font Size: When President Donald Trump sees that another country is treating the U.S. or its citizens with disrespect, he immediately takes direct action to put pressure on them. It seems that French President Emmanuel Macron has seen the success Trump has had and wants in on the action. Now, I don’t expect you to know the background story of why France and Algeria don’t get along. However, the history between the two countries dates back centuries, including a long period of French control starting in 1830 and a bloody war of independence that ended in 1962. Since then, diplomatic and migration issues have plagued the two countries. However, things took a turn for the worse in July 2024 when Macron joined several other countries, including the U.S., in recognizing Morocco’s sovereignty over Western Sahara. (Sign up for Mary Rooke’s weekly newsletter here!) This recognition isn’t just symbolic. It was tantamount to a geopolitical earthquake with diplomatic, economic and security ramifications. In response, Algeria recalled its ambassador to France. The country has also refused to repatriate deported nationals and levied accusations of French espionage in recent years. The tension has led to reciprocal expulsions of diplomats and trade disruptions, including Algeria taking aim at imports and exports with France. Algeria is also holding French-Algerian author Boualem Sansal and reporter Christophe Gleizes in prison for “undermining national unity” and “advocating terrorism” respectively, Politico reported. 🇫🇷🇩🇿 President Emmanuel Macron urged a tougher line from Paris in an intensifying standoff with former north African colony Algeria, saying France’s stance needed to ‘command respect’. Tensions have grown in recent months, here’s more 👇 pic.twitter.com/BtYUVbr8Yg — FRANCE 24 English (@France24_en) August 7, 2025 It seems that Macron recognizes that now is not the time for soft words and has further escalated his contentious fight with the North African country. (ROOKE: One Of The Largest School Districts In Country Was Failing For Years. Then Republicans Took Over) The French president instructed his prime minister and foreign minister to terminate the 2013 agreement that granted Algerian diplomats free access to France, Politico reported. “We have no choice but to adopt a firmer approach,” Macron told French outlet Le Figaro. If this had happened in the U.S., Trump would have likely used the full weight of the U.S. economic and diplomatic machine to put Algeria in its place. Similar to how Trump has used tariffs to force Mexico and Canada to comply with border crossings and drug enforcement. Maybe during Macron’s last visit to the White House, Trump lent him a piece of his backbone. Follow Mary Rooke on X: @MaryRooke Sign up for Mary Rooke’s weekly newsletter here! Tags : algeria diplomacy donald trump emmanuel macron france visa Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School US 3 Foreign Leaders Agree: Trump Should Win Nobel Peace Prize World 4 REPORT: FBI Proves Trump's DEI Purge Is Working Politics 5 Leading Senate Candidate Took Victory Lap Suing Woke 'Cartel' He Quietly Invests Fortune In Politics Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School 3 Foreign Leaders Agree: Trump Should Win Nobel Peace Prize 4 REPORT: FBI Proves Trump's DEI Purge Is Working 5 Leading Senate Candidate Took Victory Lap Suing Woke 'Cartel' He Quietly Invests Fortune In 6 Texas House Speaker Aims Sights On Runaway Dems 7 OPINION Europe's Censorship Regimes Are Coming For America 8 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 9 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 10 Liberal Media Dutifully Ignoring Blatant Gerrymandering Hypocrisy