New York Times Pretends Left Didn’t Totally Melt Down Over Sydney Sweeney Ad
Media New York Times Pretends Left Didn’t Totally Melt Down Over Sydney Sweeney Ad (Photo by Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images) Nicole Silverio Media Reporter August 07, 2025 5:28 PM ET August 07, 2025 5:28 PM ET Nicole Silverio Media Reporter Font Size: The New York Times ignored the blatant fact on Thursday that the political left melted down over actress Sydney Sweeney doing a jeans advertisement. The left-wing media and social media users flat-out accused the American Eagle ad, which featured Sweeney, of promoting eugenics and Nazi propaganda for having a blonde, blue-eyed model and for its play on the word “genes.” The Times published an article titled, “How the Right Shaped the Debate Over the Sydney Sweeney Ads,” to argue that the left did not, in fact, express any anger toward Sweeney. “[The right] claimed that progressives were up in arms over the intentional double-entendre with the word ‘genes,’ suggesting it was winking at eugenics or white supremacy,” the articles reads. “In reality, most progressives weren’t worked up much at all.” (RELATED: Critics Attack Sydney Sweeney Over New Endorsement Ad. Everyone’s Missing Big Picture) Really, @nytimes? The Times is trying to convince you that all the outrage you saw over Sydney Sweeney’s jeans ad was not actually outrage at all. @DailyCaller pic.twitter.com/nTVuSCDDXW — Nicole Silverio (@NicoleMSilverio) August 7, 2025 The Times attempted to blame right-wing influencers for the escalation of online discourse about the ad. The outlet claimed that “only a few thousand posts on X mentioned” Sweeney and that “fewer than 10 percent” actually expressed outrage. The left-wing media rushed to make the advertisement about race immediately after its release. MSNBC producer Hannah Holland published an op-ed on July 29 titled, “Sydney Sweeney’s ad shows an unbridled cultural shift toward whiteness,” which argued in its caption that the advertisement reflected something “ugly and startling.” “The backlash has been swift and fierce, and some of it, at least, if you ask me, is fair. The internet has been quick to condemn the advertisement as noninclusive at best and as overtly promoting ‘white supremacy’ and ‘Nazi propaganda’ at worst,” the MSNBC producer wrote. During a July 29 segment, “Good Morning America First Look” featured left-wing historian Robin Londa, who alleged that the pun, “good genes,” has ties to the “American eugenics movement,” which she said “weaponized the idea of good genes to justify white supremacy.” Several influencers on social media condemned the ad as “eugenics” and “Nazi propaganda.” One influencer posted a photograph of herself next to an ad of Sweeney and wrote, “Black people have great genes. Indigenous humans have amazing genes. Queer folks have the best genes. Humans who have disabilities have boomin’ genes.” Pop singer Lizzo posted an AI photo of herself in the same position and outfit as Sweeney and captioned it, “My jeans are black.” Several angry liberal women characterized the ad as “white supremacy” and code for “eugenics” in footage posted by “Frontlines TPUSA.” Vice President J.D. Vance mocked the left for expressing such outrage, suggesting that they cannot expect to win future elections by raging about normal things, such as attractive women modeling in a jeans ad. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : american eagle sydney sweeney the new york times Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts