FCC Chair Brendan Carr Tells DISH Network To Nix DEI Policies Or Face The Music
US FCC Chair Brendan Carr Tells DISH Network To Nix DEI Policies Or Face The Music Caden Olson Contributor August 07, 2025 5:26 PM ET August 07, 2025 5:26 PM ET Caden Olson Contributor Font Size: Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Brendan Carr warned satellite television company DISH Network L.L.C. (“DISH”) that noncompliance with the agency’s directive to end diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) policies could potentially warrant investigation, during a Thursday open meeting at FCC Headquarters. Carr made his warning after watchdog group Consumers’ Research uncovered a number of ideologically-driven programs at DISH, including “mandatory ideological training, promotion of gender ideology to kids, and climate activism in corporate culture,” according to a Wednesday letter the group sent to Carr and Attorney General Pam Bondi. “One of the things we’ve been very clear on here at the FCC from day one is ending the promotion of invidious forms of DEI discrimination,” Carr said in response to a question asked by the Daily Caller News Foundation. “I did that effectively on day one following an executive order from President [Donald] Trump that ended the FCC’s own promotion [of DEI].” “I’ve also been very clear to regulated entities that they should be ending their own promotion of invidious forms of DEI and discrimination,” he continued. “We have launched investigations before. We’ve sent a letter to Comcast on their issues. We’ve sent a letter to Verizon on theirs, and our engagement with different companies have proven to be successful in making sure that they’re complying with our EEOs [Equal Employment Opportunities].” “Whether it’s DISH or anyone else, we would expect them to come into compliance with the FCC’s approach on this,” Carr added. WATCH: Consumers’ Research had found that DISH held mandatory employee training titled “Hack Your Biased Brain,” which promoted what it called the “triple AAA” of DEI: “ally, amplify, advocate.” The watchdog’s letter also noted a “comprehensive DEI framework” at the company, which it said was “designed to embed ideological priorities into corporate operations.” (RELATED: FCC Commissioner Wants Regulatory ‘Cows’ Lined Up ‘For The Slaughterhouse’) The watchdog group also highlighted DISH’s platforming of Here TV — a self-described “LGBT Library” — producing “gay versions” of conventional programming. DISH’s LGBT employee organization “Out at Dish” also promoted a “Coming Out Handbook” on “National Coming Out Day” in a 2024 Instagram post, according to Consumers’ Research. The FCC launched investigations into Comcast and Verizon, among other companies, in the first months of the Trump administration, citing concerns over race and gender-based discrimination that did not comply with FCC regulations. “I am concerned that Comcast and NBCUniversal may be promoting invidious forms of DEI in a manner that does not comply with FCC regulations,” Carr wrote in a February letter to Comcast CEO Brian Roberts. “For instance, Comcast states on its website that promoting DEI is ‘a core value of our business’ and public reports state that Comcast has an entire ‘DEI infrastructure’ that includes annual ‘DEI day[s],’ ‘DEI training for company leaders,’ and similar initiatives.” WASHINGTON, DC – JULY 23: FCC Chair Brendan Carr (L) looks on during the “Winning the AI Race” summit hosted by All‑In Podcast and Hill & Valley Forum at the Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium on July 23, 2025 in Washington, DC. Trump signed executive orders related to his Artificial Intelligence Action Plan during the event. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) The FCC’s DEI crackdown is a part of the Trump administration’s larger effort to eliminate DEI across government agencies and within the private sector. The administration has released numerous executive orders targeting DEI initiatives in both the public and private sectors and demanding the termination of “all DEI, DEIA, and ‘environmental justice’ offices and positions.” “The Biden Administration forced illegal and immoral discrimination programs, going by the name ‘diversity, equity, and inclusion’ (DEI), into virtually all aspects of the Federal Government, in areas ranging from airline safety to the military,” states an Executive Order Trump signed on the first day of his second term. “That ends today. Americans deserve a government committed to serving every person with equal dignity and respect, and to expending precious taxpayer resources only on making America great.” All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : brendan carr comcast dei dish network disney fcc lgbt verizon woke Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination Politics 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking US Popular Articles 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking 6 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 7 Bagel Shop That Served JD Vance Vandalized With Poorly Spelled Graffiti 8 REPORT: Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller Allegedly Living In Memory-Care Facility 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack