Plan That Whole World Seemed To Hate Wasn’t Even Reviewed, EU Officials Now Admit
World Plan That Whole World Seemed To Hate Wasn’t Even Reviewed, EU Officials Now Admit (Photo by MICHAL CIZEK/AFP via Getty Images) Melissa O'Rourke Reporter August 07, 2025 5:17 PM ET August 07, 2025 5:17 PM ET Melissa O'Rourke Reporter Font Size: European Union (EU) officials are pushing forward with a major climate proposal, even though they apparently did not bother to study the policy’s costs or environmental impacts, according to Politico. In July, the European Commission unveiled a sweeping plan to slash the EU’s carbon footprint by 90% by 2040, partly by allowing member states to use carbon credits earned by funding climate projects in developing countries to offset emissions. Despite the policy’s potentially massive economic and environmental ramifications, EU officials admitted they did not conduct an internal analysis of its impacts before proposing it, Politico reported. The Commission admitted its climate department, DG CLIMA, held no documents analyzing the program’s cost or effectiveness when Politico requested internal assessments of the policy’s potential impacts. (RELATED: Turns Out Major Climate Study Peddled By Media Relied On Bunk Data) European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen gives a speech during a plenary session at the European Parliament, where a motion of censure against the European Commission is debated, in Strasbourg on July 7, 2025. (Photo by JEAN-CHRISTOPHE VERHAEGEN/AFP via Getty Images) The idea was spearheaded by Climate Commissioner Wopke Hoekstra, but climate department head Kurt Vandenberghe admitted in June that they were “not entirely prepared” for the move, Politico reported. Key details, including how much the credits will cost and whether taxpayers or companies will foot the bill, also remain unclear, according to the outlet. U.S. officials have raised broader concerns about the EU’s climate agenda, warning that certain regulatory mandates could impact American businesses. Some have called on the Trump administration to examine the implications of the EU’s environmental policies as part of its trade negotiations. Critics argue that carbon credit policies impose significant compliance costs on businesses, forcing them to participate in a system that many consider deeply flawed. Companies have spent millions on carbon offset projects that deliver little to no real emissions reductions, and in some cases, have exaggerated or outright fabricated their environmental impact. “The cost of high-quality carbon credits that deliver sustainable and long-term mitigation outcomes can be very high,” the EU’s scientific advisory board on climate change warned about the carbon credits in June. “Purchasing such credits from abroad could therefore come at the expense of domestic investment opportunities.” European Commission spokesperson Anna-Kaisa Itkon told the Daily Caller News Foundation that the Commission consulted various stakeholders on its carbon credit proposal and that an impact assessment would be conducted. “Following extensive engagement on the part of the Commissioner with Member States, Members of the European Parliament and stakeholders since then, the Commission’s proposal to amend the European Climate Law includes provision to consider the possible inclusion of a limited amount of high-quality international credits in the design of the post-2030 policy framework,” Itkoen said. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : europe european commission european union green energy Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination Politics 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking US Popular Articles 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking 6 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 7 Bagel Shop That Served JD Vance Vandalized With Poorly Spelled Graffiti 8 REPORT: Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller Allegedly Living In Memory-Care Facility 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack