Jonathan Turley Explains What House GOP Is Up To By Bringing In Biden Staffers
Media Jonathan Turley Explains What House GOP Is Up To By Bringing In Biden Staffers Screenshot/Rumble/Fox News Harold Hutchison Media Reporter August 07, 2025 4:58 PM ET August 07, 2025 4:58 PM ET Harold Hutchison Media Reporter Font Size: George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley explained Thursday why the House Oversight Committee was bringing in Biden administration officials for sworn interviews regarding the decline of former President Joe Biden during his term of office. The committee began requesting interviews from senior Biden administration officials in May, after Biden’s health issues and cognitive decline during his term in office were detailed in books that came out in the spring of 2025. Turley said that the committee was trying to “lock in” testimony from those closest to Biden. (RELATED: ‘Really Astonishing’: Jonathan Turley Stunned By Brennan, Clapper Russiagate Claims In NYT Op-Ed) “What they’re trying to do is lock people into this testimony, as they dig deeper. The fact is we all watched this happen,” Turley told “America Reports” guest co-host Bill Hemmer. “We all watched in the campaign when staffers kept him in the basement, kept him away from reporters. It was clear that they did not believe he could sustain any conversation with a press gaggle. Then it got worse. Eventually, as you know, he would just read from teleprompters. It was as spontaneous and independent as an eye chart. You can see him struggling just to read what had been written for him. That’s quite alarming.” WATCH: “The Constitution allows for a president to be removed in office, but the process is cumbersome. More important, it ignores the fact that staffers have a perverse incentive. If they can keep the president breathing, they can exercise presidential powers and that’s the concern,” Turley continued. “So, the House is trying to lock in this testimony and get a little deeper into the measures used to do this. The impression again is that they would roll out this president for short periods of time just to read from prompters.” Questions about the use of an autopen, a mechanical device that can replicate a stored signature, to sign documents during the Biden administration emerged in March when Trump declared in a post on Truth Social that pardons issued by Biden to members of the House committee investigating the Jan. 6, 2021, riot at the Capitol were invalid due to the device’s use. Further questions about Biden’s health while in office emerged after a May 18 announcement that he had been diagnosed with an aggressive form of prostate cancer that metastasized to the bone. Prostate cancer that has spread to the bone is usually considered Stage 4B cancer with a survival rate of 37% over five years from diagnosis, according to the Mayo Clinic. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : america reports autopen bill hemmer fox news joe biden joe biden health jonathan turley Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination Politics 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking US Popular Articles 1 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 2 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 3 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 4 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 5 Trump Admin Official Known As 'Big Balls' Savagely Beaten Saving Woman From Carjacking 6 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 7 Bagel Shop That Served JD Vance Vandalized With Poorly Spelled Graffiti 8 REPORT: Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller Allegedly Living In Memory-Care Facility 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack