Fire Chief Reportedly Suspended After Telling 10-Year-Old To ‘Shut The Fk Up’
US Fire Chief Reportedly Suspended After Telling 10-Year-Old To ‘Shut The F**k Up’ Image not directly from story. Wikimedia Commons/Public/Alex Smith, CC0 Fiona McLoughlin Contributor August 07, 2025 4:54 PM ET August 07, 2025 4:54 PM ET Fiona McLoughlin Contributor Font Size: A Long Island fire chief was reportedly suspended after telling a 10-year-old girl to “shut the fuck up.” A video captured by an onlooking neighbor was shared to TikTok documenting the incident that took place Monday, according to the New York Post. Personnel can be seen loading a girl on a stretcher into an ambulance in the video. “Shut the fuck up,” a man appears to yell at the child. “It’s like this with you every fucking week!” “I don’t want to,” the child can be heard calling out as the man appears to tell her to shut her mouth. “I want to go home,” the child continues. The man was allegedly North Babylon Fire Chief Peter Alt, according to the Post. He has been suspended amid an investigation into the matter, NBC4 New York reported. The person who shared the video claimed the child was “in crisis.” “She was scared, having a mental health emergency–and instead of compassion, she was berated, told shut the f*ck up you little bitch by a grown man in uniform,” the social media user alleged. “Suffolk County Police stood by and did nothing.” “What you don’t see on video was even worse. The verbal abuse went on and on. This child was treated like she didn’t matter,” the caption continued. “This is beyond unacceptable. This is trauma. Children in crisis need care, not cruelty.” Long Island fire chief Peter Alt caught cursing, yelling at distressed 10-year-old as she’s placed in ambulance: ‘Shut the f–k up’ https://t.co/9P9ZqauAu3 pic.twitter.com/YOwJfcc2HZ — New York Post (@nypost) August 7, 2025 The North Babylon Volunteer Fire Company said a member allegedly spoke inappropriately to a minor in a press release shared Monday on Facebook. “This member has been relieved of all of his duties pending a full and thorough investigation whereupon appropriate action will be taken,” they wrote. (RELATED: LA Fire Department Chief Fired) The fire company called the incident “unacceptable” and said they will further review training, procedures and policies. The Town of Babylon issued a statement Tuesday on Facebook. “The use of demeaning and inappropriate language by a first responder during an aided call is appalling and completely at odds with the standards of dignity, respect, and professionalism our residents deserve,” they said. “There is no place in our town for behavior that disrespects or harms the public—especially when it involves a young person or child,” their statement continued. The child’s grandmother spoke with NBC4 New York, saying she was not home at the time of the incident. The grandmother said the 10-year-old became overwhelmed after losing access to her phone and the girl’s mother called law enforcement. “Maybe it was a blessing I wasn’t there,” she told the outlet, “because I would have jumped all over this guy.” “She needed my help and needed my protection, but I wasn’t there,” she continued. “When you call for help — the police, the fire department — they’re supposed to help you. Not treat you like garbage. And curse at a child at that.” “There’s been a few times over the summer where police were called, but they’ve never treated her like that,” Mark Simms, a neighbor, told the outlet. The Daily Caller reached out to the North Babylon Volunteer Fire Company for comment. Editor’s note: Headline altered to more accurately reflect current reporting. Tags : child fire department new york Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts