‘Are You Disloyal’ Former White House Adviser Refuses To Answer Reporter’s Simple Questions On Biden Cover-Up
Media ‘Are You Disloyal?’: Former White House Adviser Refuses To Answer Reporter’s Simple Questions On Biden Cover-Up [Screenshot/Fox News] Nicole Silverio Media Reporter August 07, 2025 4:40 PM ET August 07, 2025 4:40 PM ET Nicole Silverio Media Reporter Font Size: Former White House aide Anita Dunn refused to answer Fox News congressional correspondent Aishah Hasnie’s basic questions on Thursday about the alleged cover-up of former President Joe Biden. Dunn became the 10th former Biden official to testify before the House Oversight Committee on whether the White House engaged in a cover-up of the former president’s ailing health. While Dunn walked through the congressional halls, Hasnie asked her a series of questions about the alleged cover-up. “Were you against doing a cognitive test for President Biden? Were you afraid of sharing any of the results from a cognitive test? Would you have supported a cognitive test if a doctor would’ve approved of it? Do you think the president was fit to serve for another four years?” Hasnie asked. (RELATED: Biden Aide Blames President’s Stutter For Bad Debate Performance In Oversight Testimony) WATCH: Hasnie further asked Dunn about allegations made by Anthony Bernal, who served as former first lady Jill Biden, that she was “disloyal” to the Biden family. “Are you disloyal to the Biden family?” Hasnie asked Dunn, followed by no response. The Fox News correspondent also asked why the American public should trust congressional Democrats after they learned about Biden’s declining health. Dunn did not answer a single question posed by Hasnie. The White House, congressional Democrats and the corporate media simultaneously discredited concerns about Biden’s physical and mental health as a “right-wing conspiracy” ahead of the 2024 election. Democrats and the media changed their tune after Biden’s disastrous performance during the June 27, 2024, debate, where he spoke with a raspy voice and could not answer basic questions. Biden’s physical physician, Dr. Kevin O’Connor, reportedly warned aides in the White House that the then-president would have to resort to a wheelchair if he suffered from another fall, according to “Original Sin,” a book by CNN’s Jake Tapper and Axios’ Alex Thompson. Staff repeatedly shielded Biden from the press and often provided him with pre-prepared notes ahead of events. The Oversight Committee has subpoenaed Biden’s closest aides and allies to testify on the alleged cover-up. Many staffers, including Bernal, pleaded the Fifth. Dunn asserted during her testimony that despite Biden’s noticeable aging, he made all of his own decisions, according to The Hill. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : aishah hasnie anita dunn house oversight committee joe biden Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People Editorial 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn US 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance Media 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 OPINION INGERSOLL: It's Open Season On White People 3 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn 4 Greg Gutfeld Tells Story About Being 'Wasted' And 'Wrestling' Jimmy Fallon In 'Tonight Show' Appearance 5 DA Launches Investigation Against Priest After Church Holds Raffle For Luxury Car 6 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 7 James Carville Takes Down Epstein Episode After Letter From Melania Trump's Attorney 8 Police ID Atlanta CDC Shooter And Give Possible Motive 9 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump