Obama-Appointed Judge Halts ‘Alligator Alcatraz’ Construction In Response To Environmentalist Lawsuit
US Obama-Appointed Judge Halts ‘Alligator Alcatraz’ Construction In Response To Environmentalist Lawsuit Joe Raedle/Getty Images Jason Hopkins Immigration Reporter August 07, 2025 4:20 PM ET August 07, 2025 4:20 PM ET Jason Hopkins Immigration Reporter Font Size: A federal judge on Thursday ordered a temporary pause on all construction at “Alligator Alcatraz” in Florida as a lawsuit against the facility continues. U.S. District Judge Kathleen Williams, appointed to the bench by the Obama administration in 2011, issued a temporary restraining order against any further construction of the migrant detention center while debate over whether it violates environmental laws plays out, according to multiple news outlets. However, the temporary restraining order, which will last 14 days, does not affect the detainees who are currently held in the facility. (RELATED: Trump Orders ‘New And Highly Accurate’ Census Not Counting Illegal Migrants) Williams’ order determined Immigration and Customs (ICE) and the Florida Division of Emergency Management likely violated the National Environmental Policy by not undergoing an environmental review before opening the facility. The judge also added that she would issue a written order later in the day. “I think that evidence is sufficient to support the plaintiffs’ claims,” the Obama-appointed judge stated Thursday, noting that the plaintiffs had introduced evidence of “ongoing environmental harms,” according to Politico. TOPSHOT – US President President Donald Trump (2L), Florida Governor Ron DeSantis (L), and Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem (R) tour a migrant detention center, dubbed “Alligator Alcatraz,” located at the site of the Dade-Collier Training and Transition Airport in Ochopee, Florida on July 1, 2025. (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS / AFP) (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images) Florida Attorney General James Uthmeier first proposed the idea of Alligator Alcatraz earlier in June, suggesting that the location would be perfect because migrant detainees would have virtually nowhere to escape. The project turned a virtually abandoned airfield into a massive detention center, assisting the Trump administration as it continues with its goal of unprecedented immigration enforcement. The Trump administration promptly approved the proposal by Uthmeier to build the migrant detention center in the Everglades, dubbing it “Alligator Alcatraz.” However, just after the federal government announced it would help fund the endeavor, major environmental groups quickly announced a lawsuit against it. The Center for Biological Diversity and Friends of the Everglades filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in June to halt the implementation of the “reckless plan,” according to a press release from the organizations. A massive region of flooded grassland in southern Florida, the Everglades is around 1.5 million acres and estimated to hold over 200,000 alligators — making escape by foot an incredibly dangerous endeavor. The project was expected to cost around $450 million a year and feature 5,000 beds to house illegal migrants and other foreign nationals under federal immigration detention. The Trump administration has doubled down on state cooperation for more migrant detention space. The Indiana Department of Corrections is currently working with ICE to expand detention space by 1,000 beds, according to the Department of Homeland Security. The upcoming project — dubbed the “Speedway Slammer” — will be located at the Miami Correctional Center in Bunker Hill, Indiana. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : center for biological diversity florida immigration and customs enforcement Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School US 2 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe Media 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith Sports 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever Opinion Popular Articles 1 Former AOC Staffer Arrested For Trying To Incite Attack On Jewish School 2 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 6 Former UFC Star Speaks On Turn To Christianity After Serious Procedure 7 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 Trump Drops Hammer On Streets Of DC After Savage Assault Of Former DOGE Staffer 10 'Kids Are Kids': DC Attorney General Promoted Kid Gloves For Minors Before 'Big Balls' Attack