REPORT Three More Sept. 11 Victims Identified Nearly 25 Years Later
US REPORT: Three More Sept. 11 Victims Identified Nearly 25 Years Later Photo by JUAN MABROMATA/AFP via Getty Images Skye Graham Contributor August 07, 2025 4:00 PM ET August 07, 2025 4:00 PM ET Skye Graham Contributor Font Size: Nearly 25 years after the Sept. 11 attacks, authorities have identified three more World Trade Center victims through advanced DNA testing. New York City’s chief medical examiner and Mayor Eric Adams said Thursday that Ryan Fitzgerald, Barbara Keating and a third woman whose name was withheld were confirmed as victims using genetic reference samples from relatives, according to ABC News. The new identifications bring the total number of confirmed victims to 1,653 of the 2,753 people killed at the site. (RELATED: ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People) “Nearly 25 years after the disaster at the World Trade Center, our commitment to identify the missing and return them to their loved ones stands as strong as ever,” Jason Graham, the chief medical examiner, told the outlet. “Each new identification testifies to the promise of science and sustained outreach to families despite the passage of time. We continue this work as our way of honoring the lost.” 394277 14: New York City firefighters take a rest at the World Trade Center after two hijacked planes crashed into the Twin Towers September 11, 2001 in New York. (Photo by Ron Agam/Getty Images) “The pain of losing a loved one in the September 11th terror attacks echoes across the decades, but with these three new identifications, we take a step forward in comforting the family members still aching from that day,” Adams said in a statement to ABC News. Fitzgerald, 26, was working at Fiduciary Trust International in the south tower when the planes hit, Newsday reported. Keating, 72, was aboard one of the hijacked flights that struck the towers, according to the New York Post. Tags : 911 dna new york september 11 september 11 attacks Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations Politics 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief Politics 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People World 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US Popular Articles 1 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 2 More Reported Information Has Come Out To Explain Trump Firing IRS Chief 3 ISIS Soldiers Storm Christian Vigil, Behead Several People 4 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 5 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 6 OPINION INGERSOLL: 'It Is' About Race: If The WNBA Won’t Protect Clark, Trump Should Do It 7 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 8 Trump Moves To Keep Leftists From Pilfering Tax Dollars For Radical Agendas 9 OPINION Jim Acosta Somehow Topped Himself, Posts Most Deranged Interview Ever 10 Fani Willis’ Office Melting Down So Fast She’s Begging For Resumes On LinkedIn