Hulk Hogan’s Daughter Brooke Offers To Pay For Autopsy Amid Growing Suspicions Of Cause Of Death
Entertainment Hulk Hogan’s Daughter Brooke Offers To Pay For Autopsy Amid Growing Suspicions Of Cause Of Death (Photo by Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images) Leena Nasir Entertainment Reporter August 07, 2025 3:57 PM ET August 07, 2025 3:57 PM ET Leena Nasir Entertainment Reporter Font Size: Hulk Hogan’s daughter offered to pay for an autopsy to discover the truth about his cause of death. Brooke Hogan issued a statement on her Instagram story Thursday, telling fans she’s willing to cover the costs herself to get peace of mind about what really happened to her famous father. Her statement came just two days after Brooke said she had doubts about the official cause of death report. “I’m glad to see that my dad has not been cremated and that Sky is waiting because of family questions,” she wrote, referencing Hogan’s wife. “With all of the speculation and uncertainty of my dad’s death, I want to personally offer to pay for an autopsy if that’s what it takes to get it done.” View this post on Instagram A post shared by Sky Daily Hogan (@mrs.sky.hogan) Brooke’s statement continued, “My dad’s dignity and legacy deserves it.” Hogan’s daughter flagged concerns Tuesday, asserting it was suspicious that his death report was issued without an autopsy. Speaking with Bubba the Love Sponge on his radio show, which shares the same name, she said the report noted the famous wrestler battled leukemia before his death, TMZ reported. Brooke argued she was by his side leading up to a surgical procedure, and she personally viewed his bloodwork. She claimed doctors never told her that Hogan had leukemia, and she questioned why no autopsy was performed. Hogan’s wife Sky issued a statement Wednesday saying she held off on scheduling the wrestling legend’s cremation, “as our family is making sure every question about his medical care is answered first,” according to the outlet. NEW YORK, NEW YORK – OCTOBER 27: Hulk Hogan takes the stage during a campaign rally for Republican presidential nominee, former U.S. President Donald Trump at Madison Square Garden on October 27, 2024 in New York City. Trump closed out his weekend of campaigning in New York City with a guest list of speakers that includes his running mate Republican Vice Presidential nominee, U.S. Sen. J.D. Vance (R-OH), Tesla CEO Elon Musk, UFC CEO Dana White, and House Speaker Mike Johnson, among others, nine days before Election Day. (Photo by Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images) A spokesperson for the Clearwater Police Department insisted there were “no signs of foul play or anything suspicious about the death,” TMZ stated. Hogan passed away July 24th at a Clearwater, Florida, hospital. Officials deemed a heart attack as the cause of death. (RELATED: Hulk Hogan’s Daughter Brooke Hogan Explains Why She Did Not Attend His Funeral) View this post on Instagram A post shared by Sky Daily Hogan (@mrs.sky.hogan) The wrestling icon was honored at a celebrity-studded funeral Tuesday. Guests in attendance included Kid Rock, former NBA player Dennis Rodman and MMA fighter Tito Ortiz, according to WTSP10 Tampa Bay. Tags : autopsy blood cancer death hulk hogan wwe Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies Energy 3 ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act Entertainment 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up Media 5 INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It Opinion Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Legacy Media Blames Trump For Soaring Energy Prices, Turns Blind Eye To Biden's Grid-Crushing Policies 3 OPINION ROOKE: Kelly Clarkson Likely Losing Millions With Incredibly Selfless Act 4 'They Were Blowing Us Off': Cincinnati Brawl Victim Alleges Shocking Police Behavior After She Woke Up 5 BLOG INGERSOLL: Stop Educating Women, Our Country Depends On It 6 Charlie Kirk Outlines Trump’s Plan To Strip Democrats Of 20 Electoral Votes 7 EXCLUSIVE: Trump Admin Puts Nail In Coffin Of Biden-Era Vaccine Discrimination 8 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 9 'Not A Good Sign': MSNBC Legal Analyst Warns 'Letitia James Should Be Very Concerned' About DOJ Probe 10 Blue State Begins Funding Universities After Trump Admin Cuts