ROOKE One Of The Largest School Districts In Country Was Failing For Years. Then Republicans Took Over
Education ROOKE: One Of The Largest School Districts In Country Was Failing For Years. Then Republicans Took Over Photo by FRANCOIS PICARD/AFP via Getty Images Mary Rooke Commentary and Analysis Writer August 07, 2025 3:34 PM ET August 07, 2025 3:34 PM ET Mary Rooke Commentary and Analysis Writer Font Size: It has been two years since Republicans in Texas took control of the nation’s eighth-largest school district, and the results are impressive. In June 2023, following chronic underperformance at specific campuses and governance failures, the Texas Education Agency (TEA) took over the Houston Independent School District (HISD), removing the superintendent and dissolving the district’s elected school board. On the same day, the TEA appointed Mike Miles as superintendent and replaced the elected school board with a state-appointed Board of Managers. Out of approximately 274 schools in HISD, 121 received D or F ratings in 2023. Still, the trigger was Wheatley High School (WHS), which had received failing accountability ratings for seven consecutive years. It was also unable to meet the state’s special education compliance standards and had several issues with board dysfunction. Due to legal mandates under Texas Senate Bill 1882 and House Bill 1842, state intervention is permitted if any school in a Texas district receives failing ratings for multiple consecutive years, even if the overall district’s performance meets the standards. (Sign up for Mary Rooke’s weekly newsletter here!) Miles and the Board of Managers will oversee the district until at least 2027, reporting directly to the TEA, bypassing traditional local control until the district meets criteria for sustained improvement. During the last two years at the helm, Miles has overhauled the district, including the implementation of the New Education System (NES) model across over 100 schools, increased teacher salaries that range from $100,000 or more based on performance, and timed lessons. Additionally, several school principals have been replaced. Zero failing schools. None. The country’s 8th largest district Mike Miles should be receiving plaudits in the media, a case study for NYC, CPS and others to do likewise Instead, he always has “the controversial” appended to his name and gets branded as a veritable boogeyman pic.twitter.com/RDRvMijllY — Daniel Buck, “Youngest Old Man in Ed Reform” (@MrDanielBuck) August 6, 2025 These reforms are already showing vast improvements in student outcomes. While exact district-wide A-F ratings for the 2024-2025 school year are still being finalized, recent reports indicate that there are no schools in the district with an F rating. This is a remarkable contrast to the 56 F-rated schools prior to the takeover. Republicans have long advocated for aggressive interventions, like state takeovers, merit-based teacher pay, centralized curricula, and accountability measures, to address failing schools. These policies are often opposed by Democrats, who prioritize local and teacher union control. (Trump’s Census Bombshell Could Upend 2026 Midterms) The elimination of all F-rated schools in HISD just two years after Miles took over, coupled with improved STAAR scores and a projected B district rating for the 2024-25 school year, provides Republicans with the data to bolster their arguments. It also gives a battle plan for other Republican-led states to implement these procedures in their struggling urban school districts. Republican Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves told the Daily Caller in April that the state’s National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) report card from 2024, showing it leading the nation in demographic-adjusted 4th- and 8th-grade scores, was “not a miracle at all.” “It’s really a result of conservative reforms implemented in public education — they’re making a huge difference for kids,” the governor said. While the long-term outcomes will hinge on Miles’ tenure and community support for the takeover, it currently appears that Republicans have successfully stepped in to address decades of Democratic failures. Our children deserve a better education than what is currently offered to them, but it shouldn’t take state control to give it to them. Thankfully, Texas laws afforded the students in this district a chance. Follow Mary Rooke on X: @MaryRooke Sign up for Mary Rooke’s weekly newsletter here! Tags : democrats education greg abbott houston republicans teachers unions texas texas house of representatives Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners Media 3 Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster Opinion 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas US 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 3 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him 6 Putin Reveals He's Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat 7 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly 8 Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump's Civil Rights