Jasmine Crockett Is Apparently A Terrible Boss Who Makes Staffers Treat Her Like Royalty
Media Jasmine Crockett Is Apparently A Terrible Boss Who Makes Staffers Treat Her Like Royalty (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images) Nicole Silverio Media Reporter August 07, 2025 3:31 PM ET August 07, 2025 3:31 PM ET Nicole Silverio Media Reporter Font Size: Democratic Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett’s aides have alleged that she “terrorizes” her staff and rarely shows up to the office unless she is in front of a camera. Crockett, who has a history of contentious behavior toward her colleagues, reportedly screams at her staff in the rare times that she is present at the workplace, anonymous sources told the New York Post. Two other unnamed sources said it is widely known that Crockett is focused on being an influencer rather than a voice for her constituents, with one source referring to her as “all diva, no wow.” “She is laying around her apartment, won’t come into the office, and is really just indifferent to staff and will scream at them,” a former aide said. “She is never in the office and is very disengaged. She does her bulls— that goes viral, and then freaks out over the most random things.” Every week, Crockett reportedly makes a staffer act as a chauffeur by renting a Cadillac Escalade or another upscale vehicle to drive her the short distance to her office, according to the Post. The congresswoman reportedly sits in the backseat of the luxury vehicle, which her staff have described as being a “power play.” (RELATED: Jasmine Crockett Manages To Make Texas Flood Tragedy About Herself) WASHINGTON, DC – JULY 23: U.S. Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D-TX) speaks during a news conference outside the U.S. Capitol on July 23, 2025 in Washington, DC. The Congressional Voting Rights Caucus held a news conference ahead of Texas redistricting hearings to discuss the issue. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) Crockett’s office has experienced constant turnover as fed up employees have quit left and right, the Post reported. Some of her former aides declined to comment on their previous employment to the outlet out of fear of retribution from Crockett. On one occasion, the congresswoman made a legislative aide cry as she yelled, “Do you really want to be here? And if not, you can leave!” according to the Post. Another former aide, a young black woman, said Crockett abruptly fired her “for no reason,” the outlet reported. A job listing for Crockett’s office had been shared to a large number of Democratic black women, though none of them expressed interest in the job. “You would think working for a black woman, if you were a young black woman or a young person of color, you would feel empowered in that space,” one former Democratic congressional aide said. “But truly, the only person that she thinks about and cares about is herself. The staff is really just an island unto itself, because she doesn’t care about the local issues happening in her district. She’s more focused on, ‘Get me on ‘The View,’ ‘Get me on this late-night talk show.'” The Atlantic’s Elaine Godfrey, who published a profile on Crockett, said that she witnessed the congresswoman call her staff and scold him for an “unclear note” on her schedule during an interview at the Waldorf. On a separate occasion, when an aide handed her a paper bag full of food from a fundraiser, Crockett scrunched her nose and said, “This looks like crap.” The Texas congresswoman is also “highly conscious” of her own outward appearance and has a headshot of herself as her phone screensaver, The Atlantic first reported. She also declared that her Democratic colleagues should have backed her to become the next chair of the Oversight Committee because she has one of the “largest social media following[s].” Crockett further threatened to shut down Godfrey’s profile after she reached out to her colleagues for their insight on her. In May, Crockett appeared to board a commercial flight ahead of two handicapped passengers, House Republican Conference chairwoman Lisa McClain reported on X. In an Instagram post responding to the Texas flood that killed at least 135 people, Crockett gave a personal shoutout to her hairdresser for giving her a new haircut. Crockett’s office did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : congress democrats jasmine crockett Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners Media 3 Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster Opinion 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas US 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 3 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him 6 Putin Reveals He's Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat 7 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly 8 Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump's Civil Rights