Major Utility Admits That Complete Green Energy Transition Could Wreck Power Grid
Energy Major Utility Admits That Complete Green Energy Transition Could Wreck Power Grid (Photo by Brandon Bell/Getty Images) Audrey Streb DCNF Energy Reporter August 07, 2025 3:02 PM ET August 07, 2025 3:02 PM ET Audrey Streb DCNF Energy Reporter Font Size: Arizona’s largest utility company, Arizona Public Service (APS), announced Wednesday that it is abandoning its 2050 net-zero emissions goal, citing concerns that the target could jeopardize power reliability. Pinnacle West, the parent company of APS, said Wednesday during its quarterly earnings call that APS will abandon its pledge to rely entirely on green energy by 2050 because doing so may threaten “reliability and affordability” of the power system. Instead, APS will pursue a carbon-neutral goal by 2050, as the original target could have seriously threatened the power grid as energy demand climbs in Arizona, according to company officials. “Our mission is to reliably serve customers at the lowest cost possible. To do that, we need to integrate the most reliable and cost-effective resources available to us to meet Arizona’s fast-growing energy needs,” President and Chief Executive Officer of Pinnacle West Ted Geisler said Wednesday. “Clean energy remains an important consideration for us … but always with a focus on a balanced energy mix that best serves reliability and affordability.” (RELATED: Oil Giants Turn Back On Global Group Pushing ‘Net Zero’ On Energy Industry) The sun shines through a saguaro cactus in Phoenix, Ariona, on June 7, 2024. (Photo by JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty Images) The policy goal shift means that APS could continue to use fossil fuels to generate power, though it will have to offset any produced emissions. The utility also noted that it will explore opportunities to develop natural gas resources for when “intermittent resources like solar and wind are insufficient to meet customer demand.” Arizona has adopted several green energy initiatives and goals over the years, and Democratic Gov. Katie Hobbs has voiced a commitment to “invest in a 21st-century clean energy economy.” Arizona’s energy bills are already comparatively high, and they are projected to climb as developers build out power-hungry data centers in the state, according to Forbes and Axios. The data centers, especially when paired with sweltering summer heat, are expected to increasingly strain Arizona’s energy system, according to multiple reports. Rising energy demand and electricity costs are a national trend, as the artificial intelligence boom and the re-industrialization of America are driving substantial increases in expected future U.S. power demand, according to numerous reports and energy sector experts. Major energy companies in the oil industry have also recently abandoned aggressive climate targets for more attainable goals. APS confirmed the emissions goal change and referred the Daily Caller News Foundation to its Wednesday earnings call news release. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : arizona green energy power grid Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners Media 3 Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster Opinion 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas US 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him US Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 'That's A New One': Scott Jennings Cracks Up When CNN Panelist Claims DOGE Shut Down Diners 3 OPINION Feel-Good Scheme From Top Democrat Is A Recipe For Disaster 4 Ken Paxton Says 'Beto Bribes' No Longer Helping Democrats Who Fled Texas 5 REPORT: 'Goo Goo Ga Ga': Man Wearing Diaper Allegedly Asks Young Girls To 'Change' Him 6 Putin Reveals He's Ready To End War, But With Giant Caveat 7 ANALYSIS Three Lawmakers And How They're Covered Exposes Media's True Colors Vibrantly 8 Justice Dept Reportedly Probing Tish James for Violating Trump's Civil Rights