James Carville Reassures ‘Terrified’ Listener Kamala Harris Has No Hope Of Becoming Dem Nominee Again
Media James Carville Reassures ‘Terrified’ Listener Kamala Harris Has No Hope Of Becoming Dem Nominee Again Screenshot/YouTube/Politicon Jason Cohen DCNF Reporter/Clipper August 07, 2025 2:45 PM ET August 07, 2025 2:45 PM ET Jason Cohen DCNF Reporter/Clipper Font Size: Democratic strategist James Carville reassured a worried listener on Thursday who was concerned that former Vice President Kamala Harris would run for president again and would receive support. Harris did not rule out a 2028 presidential run in her July statement regarding her decision not to run for governor of California. Carville told the listener on the “Politics War Room” podcast that the Democratic Party would not want to back Harris due to its desire to “move on” from the 2024 presidential campaign. (RELATED: ‘She Comes With Baggage’: California House Dems Split On Possible Kamala Harris Comeback) LISTEN: “For the love of God, tell Kamala Harris not to run for president again,” the listener wrote. “I’m terrified that party people will vote for her because that’s what party people do.” “Don’t be terrified. And I think that she wisely chose not to run for governor of California. And I believe this with all my heart. Anybody that had anything to do with 2024, the party wants to move on from that … And this goes to [Democrat Minnesota Gov. Tim] Walz, too,” Carville responded. “I wouldn’t run again … if I were your friend, if I will be your chief advisor — I’m doing this not from a personal standpoint … the Democrats are not going to look to anybody that had anything to do with the 2024 campaign.” Co-host Al Hunt agreed and chimed in with his advice directed at former President Joe Biden. “I completely agree and I would add one thing. Joe Biden, would you please go and take the restful retirement you so richly reserve? And don’t speak out. People really don’t want to hear your views now,” Hunt said. “And when I read the story the other day that some of the people close to him are going to try to seek some kind of vengeance against the Nancy Pelosis. Get over it. Get over it. Just, you know, stay in Rehoboth and enjoy your grandchildren.” Carville noted that he had heard complaints about Harris going on television, but said she was “entitled to do that” after writing her upcoming book on her 2024 run. “[B]ut I don’t think it would be wise for her to run for the nomination of the Democratic party,” he added. The former vice president only became the 2024 nominee after Biden dropped out and endorsed her on July 21, 2024, following his disastrous debate against President Donald Trump the previous month. She lost all seven swing states and the popular vote to Trump in November. All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. Tags : al hunt james carville joe biden kamala harris tim walz Scroll down for comments TRENDING 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks World 2 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin US 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith Sports 4 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind Politics 5 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury Sports Popular Articles 1 China Throws A Fit After US Identifies Key Weakness In Trade Talks 2 Appeals Court Rips Obama-Appointed Judge's Legal Abuse Against Trump Admin 3 'Who's Going To Bible Study?': Most Outgoing Player In NFL Pulls Off Athletic Feat To Get Teammates Into The Faith 4 In Hindsight, It Makes Total Sense Robert Mueller Is Apparently Losing His Mind 5 NFL Stars End Game To Pray Together After Terrifying Injury 6 Alan Dershowitz Explains How Alvin Bragg And Letitia James Could Face Federal Accountability For Targeting Trump 7 Pam Bondi Names Ed Martin Special Attorney To Investigate Letitia James, Adam Schiff Mortgage Fraud Allegations 8 Scott Jennings Doesn't Let CNN Panelist Off The Hook When She Calls ICE 'Gestapo' During Fiery Exchange 9 Cancer Diagnoses Skyrocketed In Recent Years And Officials Are Just Figuring Out Why Now 10 OPINION Biden's Post-Presidential Fall From Grace Even Sadder Than You Think