CBS TV chief breaks public silence on 'The Late Show with Stephen Colbert' cancellation
Media CBS TV chief breaks public silence on 'The Late Show with Stephen Colbert' cancellation George Cheeks cites challenging late-night advertising market as reason for ending program in May 2026 By Brian Flood Fox News Published August 8, 2025 12:30pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Stephen Colbert goes after Paramount-SkyDance merger with pee jokes Stephen Colbert went after the SkyDance-Paramount merger on Monday during his monologue, taking aim at their new stock ticker symbol, PSKY, with pee jokes. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! The CBS television chief broke his public silence about the decision to cancel "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," echoing company talking points Thursday that the program will be shuttered for purely economic reasons. Paramount Chair of TV Media George Cheeks spoke about canceling Colbert’s show during a press conference following the close of a long-planned merger that put CBS’ parent company under new ownership. Cheeks, one of the few executives from the previous regime to stick around after the Skydance Media merger, oversaw all of CBS when the decision was made to cancel the program. "We are huge fans of Colbert, we love the show. Unfortunately, the economics made it a challenge for us to keep going," Cheeks told reporters in his first public remarks about Colbert since it was revealed the program would end in May 2026 and the "Late Night" brand would be retired. CBS CANCELS 'THE LATE SHOW,' STEPHEN COLBERT TO END PROGRAM IN MAY 2026 "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" will end in May 2026. (Screenshot/Colbert) "The challenge in late night is that the advertising marketplace is in significant secular decline," Cheeks continued. CBS said it was "purely a financial decision against a challenging backdrop in late night" when announcing the surprising plans last month. "The Late Show," which Colbert took over from David Letterman in 2015, famously leaned into liberal politics in the Trump era and became a major platform for Democratic politicians. Colbert had been outspoken with his criticism of Paramount settling President Donald Trump's lawsuit against the company over CBS' handling of the "60 Minutes" interview with then-Vice President Kamala Harris in the run-up to the election. Paramount settled the lawsuit last month, and the FCC approved the long-planned, $8 billion merger with Skydance shortly after. CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER SHOWS UP TO SUPPORT 'LATE SHOW' HOST STEPHEN COLBERT AFTER CANCELLATION Paramount Chair of TV Media George Cheeks. (Kristina Bumphrey/Variety via Getty Images) Many have questioned the decision, suggesting that it was done to appease Trump and the FCC, but everyone involved has pointed directly to the show’s bottom line from the start. "It is not related in any way to the show's performance, content or other matters happening at Paramount," the network said when first announcing the "Late Show" would be canceled. Puck News' Matt Belloni reported that the late-night show "has been losing more than $40 million a year" for CBS and that it had a budget of "more than $100 million per season." COLBERT TELLS TRUMP TO 'GO F--- YOURSELF’ AFTER PRESIDENT TAUNTS HIM OVER SHOW CANCELLATION Video When breaking his public silence, Cheeks did not confirm the exact amount but acknowledged the "Late Show" was losing significant cash. "At the end of the day, it just wasn’t sustainable to continue," he said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News Digital’s Joseph A. Wulfsohn contributed to this report. Brian Flood is a media editor/reporter for FOX News Digital. Story tips can be sent to brian.flood@fox.com and on Twitter: @briansflood. Related Topics Media Entertainment Stephen Colbert Fox News First Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!