‘Now they’re friends’ Trump-brokered peace deal signed at White House
‘Now they’re friends’: Trump-brokered peace deal signed at White House By Wallace White, Daily Caller News Foundation August 8, 2025 President Donald Trump announced a peace deal between Azerbaijan and Armenia on Friday, continuing his streak of resolving conflicts around the world. Trump announced the new pact alongside Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev and Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, ending a long-running conflict between the two neighboring nations over territorial claims. U.S. officials were reportedly working on the deal for months, and both nations are also set to deepen economic ties with the U.S. alongside the peace deal. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! “Thirty-five years they fought, and now they’re friends. And they’re going to be friends for a long time,” Trump said during the signing ceremony. “They suffered greatly for so many years … with this accord, we’ve finally succeeded in making peace.” The two nations have been fighting for the better part of three decades, mostly recently clashing in 2023 when Azerbaijan invaded the Armenian exclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. Negotiations to formally end the war were at an impasse, with Trump finally breaking the ice. The agreements also focus on greater economic cooperation between the two nations, as well as with the U.S., Trump said during the signing ceremony. Armenia and Azerbaijan also named a transit route after the president that allows people to come to and from Azerbaijan’s exclave of Nakhchivan. “I’m sure that Armenia and Azerbaijan will find courage and responsibility to reconcile,” Aliyev said during the ceremony. Trump has settled multiple world conflicts since he came into office in January, including brokering ceasefires between Thailand and Cambodia, Israel and Syria, India and Pakistan and Rwanda with the Democratic Republic of Congo. “As president, my highest aspiration is to bring peace and success to the world,” Trump added during the signing. The White House, the Azerbaijan Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Armenia Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected]. Ajerbaijan, Armenia, peace plan Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.