Pam Bondi appoints special prosecutor to probe Schiff and Letitia James over mortgage fraud
Pam Bondi appoints special prosecutor to probe Schiff and Letitia James over mortgage fraud By Cristina Laila, the Gateway Pundit August 8, 2025 US Attorney General Pam Bondi appointed DOJ official Ed Martin as special prosecutor to investigate Democrat Senator Adam Schiff and New York Attorney General Letitia James over allegations of mortgage fraud. FIRST ON FOX: Attorney General Bondi has authorized a special prosecutor, Ed Martin, to investigate allegations of mortgage fraud involving Sen. Adam Schiff and Letitia James, @pdoocy reports pic.twitter.com/EHYp8JEluR — Fox News (@FoxNews) August 8, 2025 Democrat Senator Adam Schiff (CA) is under investigation for mortgage fraud, Fox News reported earlier this week. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! Fox News’ Laura Ingraham on Tuesday evening exclusively reported that the US Attorney’s Office in Maryland is investigating Schiff for possible charges involving mortgage fraud. WATCH: BREAKING: There is a CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION now underway against Senator ADAM SCHIFF! LET’S F*CKING GO!!! Nobody is above the law, are they @AdamSchiff? pic.twitter.com/W1ldGZZSxu — Gunther Eagleman™ (@GuntherEagleman) August 5, 2025 Adam Schiff The Gateway Pundit’s Joe Hoft was first to report on Schiff’s mortgage fraud back in April 2023. In 2000 Schiff was elected to Congress and has served as a US House member from the state of California ever since. Schiff reportedly purchased a home in Maryland with his wife in 2003 stating they would occupy this home for 12 consecutive months as their “primary residence”. Despite this claim, Schiff continued to vote in California. Schiff refinanced his home in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2013 claiming the Maryland home was his primary residence. In 2009, a House Ethics investigation claimed that Schiff did this and Schiff claimed it was an error and he repaid the exempt taxes to the state of Maryland. President Trump last month called for Adam Schiff to be prosecuted and dropped receipts on the Democrat Senator’s mortgage fraud. “Adam Schiff is a THIEF! He should be prosecuted, just like they tried to prosecute me, and everyone else — The only difference is, WE WERE TOTALLY INNOCENT, IT WAS ALL A GIANT HOAX!” President Trump said on Truth Social. President Trump attached a screenshot of a signed and notarized affidavit that Schiff signed proclaiming the mortgaged property in Maryland is his “principal residence.” Adam Schiff also has a condominium in Los Angeles, California, that he claims is his “primary residence.” This is textbook mortgage occupancy fraud. Trump Adam Schiff mortgage fraud Last month in an episode of The Ingraham Angle, Laura revealed that she had exclusively obtained a criminal referral for Adam Schiff — and the allegations are explosive. The criminal referral, submitted to the DOJ by Housing Director Bill Pulte, accused Schiff of falsifying bank documents and property records over a period of 16 years in order to score more favorable mortgage terms and rates. Letitia James TGP has extensively and exclusively reported on Letitia James’ mortgage fraud via Joel Gilbert: Big Development: Is Letitia James Guilty of Mortgage Fraud? Mortgage Fraud Alert: Did Letitia James Marry Her Father? The Letitia Files: Did Letitia James Illegally Hire a Nonprofit for Her 2013 Campaign? Revealed: NY Attorney General Letitia James Declares Virginia Home Her ‘Principal Residence’ New for Letitia Files: Is Letitia James’ Rage Against Trump Really a “Daddy Issue?” The Trump Administration recently criminally referred New York Attorney General Letitia James to the Justice Department over accusations of mortgage fraud. The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) accused Letitia James of falsifying records, citing a 5-unit property in New York she claimed was only four units in order to get a more favorable loan. TGP recently reported on this 5-unit property in Brooklyn that Letitia James purchased in 2001. For more than 20 years, Letitia James repeatedly claimed her Brooklyn apartment building was a four-unit property on mortgage applications—despite official records proving it had five. Trending: PROJECT VERITAS PART TWO: WHISTLEBLOWER: Bill Barr Held Secret Meetings to Plot Prosecutions of Trump and Block His Political Comeback (VIDEO) This is not a minor discrepancy. Lying to the bank about the unit count enabled Letitia James to secure more favorable loans, including a 2011 Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) loan that saved her tens of thousands of dollars annually. Letitia James was able to secure a conforming loan through Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac since they are only available on properties up to 4 units. Letitia James lied about her property in Harlem being a 4 family dwelling when she knew it was a 5 family dwelling. This helped her save money on insurance for favorable premiums. The Certificate of Occupancy clearly states it is a 5-unit family dwelling. Letitia James lied when she signed legal papers stating her dwelling was a 4-family flat. Bill Pulte, the Director of the FHFA, also said Letitia James falsely claimed her Virginia property as a ‘primary residence’ even though she doesn’t live there. The Gateway Pundit also reported that Letitia James may have either married her father or falsified loan documents back in 1983. According to New York City Department of Finance records, on May 20, 1983, Letitia James and her father, Robert James, took out a real estate loan from Kadilac Funding Ltd. for $30,300 as “husband and wife.” Letitia James’ mother is Nellie James. [Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on The Gateway Pundit.com] Adam Schiff, Ed Martin, Mortgage fraud Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.