Republican leader shreds Tim Walz over Minnesota law that freed axe murderer
House Of Representatives Republican leader shreds Tim Walz over Minnesota law that freed axe murderer David Brom was released under a 2023 law signed by Gov. Walz By Elizabeth Elkind Fox News Published August 8, 2025 12:01pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Gov Tim Walz blasted by GOP rep when asked, 'What is a woman?' Governor Tim Walz faces criticism after hesitating to answer Rep. Nancy Mace's question, 'What is a woman?' during congressional hearing. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! EXCLUSIVE: The highest-ranking Minnesotan in Congress is blasting Gov. Tim Walz after a man who murdered his family as a teenager was released from prison. "Once again, Tim Walz proves why he is one of the worst governors in the country," House Majority Whip Tom Emmer, R-Minn., told Fox News Digital. "Not only do his soft-on-crime policies rob victims of the justice they deserve, but they also put the safety of every Minnesotan at risk. Being a self-proclaimed knucklehead doesn't excuse the chaos he has caused with his dangerous, far-left agenda." GOP LAWMAKERS CLASH OVER STRATEGY TO AVERT GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN CRISIS House Majority Whip Tom Emmer and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz are seen in a split image. (REUTERS/Elizabeth Frantz | AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes) Emmer, as the GOP whip, is the No. 3 House Republican leader. He's joining other Republicans from his state in criticizing the release of David Brom, a man who was convicted of killing his parents and two younger siblings with an axe in 1988. Brom was 16 years old at the time. "Allowing murderers like David Brom back onto our streets is a slap in the face to these victims and their families, undermines the rule of law, diminishes the public’s trust in our judicial system, and jeopardizes the safety of our communities," Emmer said. Brom was granted supervised work release after Minnesota passed a new law in 2023 that limited life-long prison sentences for juvenile offenders. David Brom was convicted of killing his family with an axe when he was 16 and has served 37 years in prison. (CHARLES BJORGEN/Star Tribune via Getty Images; Minnesota Department of Corrections) It began as a bill in the state legislature before being signed into law by Walz, thereby applying both to future offenders and retroactively to people like Brom. Emmer criticized Walz and the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party's policies as "soft-on-crime" and argued such law changes would "have serious consequences." "They’re forcing law-abiding Minnesotans to pay the price," Emmer said. Brom served 37 years behind bars after being convicted on four charges of first-degree murder, with a jury rejecting his plea of not guilty due to mental illness. He was sentenced to three consecutive life sentences and one concurrent life sentence. GOP GOVERNOR NOMINEE PUSHES REDISTRICTING TO OUST STATE'S LONE HOUSE DEM The Minnesota state legislature passed the bill, signed into law by Walz, in 2023. (AP Photo/Steve Karnowski) Without the new law, Brom would have been eligible for parole in 2037, after serving 52 years in prison. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP The law does not grant automatic release to juvenile offenders, but rather gives them the right to appear before a Supervised Release Board after serving a minimum of 15 years – but in some cases could be longer, depending on the nature of the crime – to present their arguments for early release. Brom was granted supervised release and was let out of prison early last week. Fox News Digital reached out to Walz's office for comment but did not immediately hear back. Elizabeth Elkind is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital leading coverage of the House of Representatives. Previous digital bylines seen at Daily Mail and CBS News. Follow on Twitter at @liz_elkind and send tips to elizabeth.elkind@fox.com Related Topics House Of Representatives Politics Minnesota More from Politics 3 hours ago Cuomo calls out NYC mayoral candidate Mamdani over rent-stabilized apartment: 'Move out immediately' 7 hours ago Trump nominates State Department spokeswoman Tammy Bruce as UN deputy representative 9 hours ago Kash Patel celebrates major FBI achievements and record seizures during Trump's first 200 days in office 12 hours ago Democratic strategist says party lacks 'moral authority' on Texas redistricting fight Fox News Politics Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!