‘Highbrow trips’ State official racks up massive travel bills
‘Highbrow trips’: State official racks up massive travel bills By Jeremy Portnoy, Real Clear Wire August 8, 2025 Boston, Massachusetts Topline: Massachusetts Attorney General Andrea Campbell and her staff spent $288,146 on their taxpayer-funded credit card in fiscal year 2024, partially to fund trips to Paris, St. Thomas and 31 U.S. states, the Boston Herald reported. Key facts: Campbell spent $13,627 on her trip to Paris last July, to a conference commemorating the 80th anniversary of the D-Day invasion. Most of the money ($9,000) went to Avis Chaffeur, a company that “offers a range of high-quality chauffeur-driven services … catering to both individuals and groups.” Campbell’s office also spent $10,286 booking rooms at the Fairfield Inn in Boston for the National Cyber Crime Conference in April. The office also hosted a gathering in Boston in October to “recognize Massachusetts State Police’s successful high-profile takedown involving a high-profile drug trafficking investigation,” which cost $1,287. An annual holiday party in December brought a $1,220 catering bill from Anna’s Taqueria. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! There were also charges from California and from Disney World in Florida listed in the spending records obtained by the Herald. Background: Campbell earned a $214,000 salary last year, making her the only employee in the history of the Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office to make more than $200,000. There were 162 employees making six figures, and the total payroll cost $53.5 million. The Attorney General’s Office received a $9 million budget increase this year after Campbell requested funding to fight what she called the “consistent cruelty” of the Trump administration. Search all federal, state and local salaries and vendor spending with the world’s largest government spending database at OpenTheBooks.com. Critical quote: The Massachusetts legislature has refused to undergo an audit, and Campbell has ignored calls from State Auditor Diana DiZoglio to force the legislature into compliance. Paul Diego Craney of the Massachusetts Alliance told the Boston Herald, “The taxpayers are footing the bill for the Attorney General’s expensive junkets. She’s reaping the reward for not auditing the Legislature, which got her a larger budget to spend on highbrow trips. The Attorney General should put as much effort into enforcing the audit of the Legislature … as she does booking out-of-state trips.” Summary: Massachusetts is just one of many states whose officials somehow manage to travel all over the world in the name of serving constituents back home. The #WasteOfTheDay is brought to you by the forensic auditors at OpenTheBooks.com This article was originally published by RealClearInvestigations and made available via RealClearWire. Jeremy Portnoy, Real Clear Wire Bob Unruh joined WND in 2006 after nearly three decades with the Associated Press, as well as several Upper Midwest newspapers, where he covered everything from legislative battles and sports to tornadoes and homicidal survivalists. He is currently a news editor for the WND News Center, and also a photographer whose scenic work has been used commercially. Read more of Jeremy Portnoy, Real Clear Wire's articles here. Andrea Campbell, corruption, government waste, Waste Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.