Kelly Clarkson remained protective of ex Brandon Blackstock despite legal battle and messy divorce
Kelly Clarkson Kelly Clarkson remained protective of ex Brandon Blackstock despite legal battle and messy divorce Clarkson's ex-husband lost his battle with cancer at the age of 48 By Stephanie Giang-Paunon Fox News Published August 8, 2025 11:33am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Kelly Clarksons ex-husband dead at 48 Fox News chief correspondent Jonathan Hunt has the latest on the life of Brandon Blackstock on The Will Cain Show. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Kelly Clarkson is grieving the loss of her ex-husband, Brandon Blackstock, who lost his battle with cancer at the age of 48. The singer is heartbroken, especially for the sake of their two children, as she navigates the emotional aftermath of his tragic death. "Kelly remained protective of him when she found out he was sick," a source told People magazine. "She’s always kept things classy, even when it became clear earlier this year that Brandon was not doing well. She’s been devastated for the kids." BRANDON BLACKSTOCK, KELLY CLARKSON'S EX-HUSBAND, DEAD AT 48 Kelly Clarkson's ex-husband, Brandon Blackstock, died after a three-year battle with cancer. He was 48. (Christopher Polk/Getty Images for NARAS) While their tumultuous divorce played out in the public eye, Clarkson’s focus has always been on maintaining stability for their two children -- River Rose and Remington Alexander. "The divorce was incredibly difficult for her — messy, painful and something she felt terrible about," the source told the outlet. "But she never wanted her kids to be caught in the crossfire. She never spoke poorly about Brandon to them." Reps for Clarkson did not immediately respond to Fox News Digital’s request for comment. While their tumultuous divorce played out in the public eye, Kelly Clarkson’s focus has always been on maintaining stability for their two children -- River Rose and Remington Alexander. (Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Atlantic Records) A rep for Blackstock’s family shared a heartfelt statement to Fox News Digital after his passing on Thursday. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER "It is with great sadness that we share the news that Brandon Blackstock has passed away," the statement read. "Brandon bravely battled cancer for more than three years. He passed away peacefully and was surrounded by family. We thank you for your thoughts and prayers and ask everyone to respect the family's privacy during this very difficult time." Kelly Clarkson and Brandon Blackstock were married in 2013 and split in 2020. (Photo by Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic) On Wednesday, Clarkson announced her plans to postpone additional shows from her Las Vegas residency due to a family emergency. KELLY CLARKSON POSTPONES REMAINING LAS VEGAS SHOWS FOR FAMILY CRISIS INVOLVING EX-HUSBAND BRANDON BLACKSTOCK "Unfortunately, I need to postpone the remainder of the August Studio Session dates in Las Vegas," the "Since U Been Gone" singer captioned an Instagram post on Wednesday. Brandon Blackstock, right, was Reba McEntire's former stepson. (Michael Buckner/Getty Images for Celebrity Fight Night) "While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father [ex-husband Brandon Blackstock] has been ill and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them." Clarkson and Blackstock were married in 2013, but they met years earlier as Blackstock's father, Narvel Blackstock, owns the music management company that represented Clarkson beginning in 2007. The pair welcomed their first child, daughter River Rose, in 2014 and their son, Remington Alexander, was born in 2016. In 2020, Clarkson filed for divorce from Blackstock, who also served as her manager. LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Kelly Clarkson and her children, River Rose Blackstock and Remington Alexander Blackstock, pose during the Star Ceremony for Kelly Clarkson on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on Sept. 19, 2022. (Photo by Michael Buckner/Variety via Getty Images) Clarkson and Blackstock's divorce was settled in 2022, with Clarkson receiving primary physical custody of their two children while still paying their father $45,000 a month in child support. Clarkson earned a legal victory in 2023 when a California labor commissioner ruled that Blackstock must pay the "Miss Independent" singer $2,641,374 for overstepping in his managerial role and "unlawfully" procuring deals, according to court docs obtained by Fox News Digital. During the time Blackstock was her manager, he allegedly made deals that her agent should have handled instead. The former "American Idol" winner’s ex was ordered to pay Clarkson for the fees he collected from contracted deals with "The Voice," Billboard Music Awards, "The Kelly Clarkson Show," Norwegian Cruise Line and more. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Stephanie Giang-Paunon is an Entertainment Writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to stephanie.giang@fox.com and on Twitter: @SGiangPaunon. Related Topics Kelly Clarkson Entertainment Celebrity News Trending Entertainment Country star Jelly Roll confirms he's dropped 200 pounds and eyes another 50 more Reba McEntire Reba McEntire considered late stepson Brandon Blackstock her 'blood' family before his death Gwyneth Paltrow Gwyneth Paltrow's daughter Apple Martin twins with famous mom in Hamptons bikini pics Crime Sharon Tate's ex fought Manson Family killers during heroic final moments: nephew Entertainment Newsletter Fox News Entertainment Newsletter: Kelly Clarkson’s ex-husband dead at 48, Dean Cain becomes ICE agent Entertainment Valerie Bertinelli leans on Betty White’s wisdom during life’s hardest moments Fox News Entertainment Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!