‘I apologize’ James Carville takes down Epstein video after letter from first lady’s attorney
‘I apologize’: James Carville takes down Epstein video after letter from first lady’s attorney By Jason Cohen, Daily Caller News Foundation August 7, 2025 James Carville Democratic strategist James Carville announced on Thursday’s episode of his podcast, “Politics War Room,” that his team had deleted a video referencing alleged ties between deceased pedophile Jeffrey Epstein, President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump following a letter from the first lady’s attorney. The video was from a July 31 episode featuring journalist Judd Legum as a guest. Carville said on the Thursday episode that his team also cut out the remarks about the first lady from the July 31 episode after her attorney’s letter and he apologized for his statements. LISTEN: Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! “In last week’s podcast episode, we spoke with Jud Legum. After the episode, we received a letter from Melania Trump’s lawyer. He took issue with our title of one of those YouTube videos from that episode and a couple of comments I made about the first lady,” Carville said. “We took a look at what they complained about and we took down the video and edited out those comments from the episode. I also take back these statements and apologize.” The video was titled, “James Carville: The EPSTEIN Connection – TRUMP & MELANIA,” according to a screenshot the first lady posted. The Daily Beast also retracted a July story that alleged the first lady was “very involved” with Epstein. The Daily Beast cited biographer Michael Wolff, who alleged during a July 26 “The Daily Beast Podcast” episode that the first lady was closely associated with Epstein’s circle and met the president in 1998 through ID Models founder Paolo Zampolli, who had ties to Epstein and his associate Ghislaine Maxwell. The first lady’s attorney sent a letter to The Daily Beast to challenge “the headline and framing of the article,” which led to the story’s removal, according to an editor’s note. “After this story was published, The Beast received a letter from First Lady Melania Trump’s attorney challenging the headline and framing of the article,” the note reads. “After reviewing the matter, the Beast has taken down the article and apologizes for any confusion or misunderstanding.” Wolff alleged the first lady knew Epstein very well and even became intimate with the president for the first time on Epstein’s plane. The president in July also sued The Wall Street Journal, two of its reporters and Rupert Murdoch after an article alleging that he sent Epstein a drawing of a naked woman for his fiftieth birthday in 2003. The president has denied the outlet’s reporting. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected]. James Carville, Jeffrey Epstein, Melania Trump Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.