Former staffers Jamine Crockett is boss from hell who ‘lays around her apartment’
Former staffers: Jasmine Crockett is boss from hell who ‘lays around her apartment’ By Cristina Laila, the Gateway Pundit August 7, 2025 U.S. Rep. Jasmine Crockett, D-Texas Democrat Rep. Jasmine Crockett is a boss from hell who screams at her staffers and lays around her apartment according to aides who have worked for the Texas lawmaker. Crockett, who is known for her foul mouth, is reportedly rude to her staffers and refuses to come to the office. This should surprise absolutely no one. The aides told The New York Post that Crockett is more interested in being an ‘influencer’ who posts viral clips to social media than actually representing the people of her district. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! The New York Post reported: Rep. Jasmine Crockett has positioned herself as an unfiltered critic of President Trump, earning regular TV appearances and an enthusiastic online following, but congressional aides tell The Post that the Dallas Democrat is just as “rude” and mean to her own staff. The liberal loudmouth, 44, has rocketed to fame since taking office in January 2023 as a fiery assailant of the Republican president and his allies. But three sources who have worked with or for Crockett say she’s rarely present when TV cameras aren’t rolling — and terrorizes staff when she does appear. Crockett is not often found at her government-provided suite in the Longworth House Office Building, with one insider saying she prefers to work from her nearby luxury apartment building, sometimes for weeks on end. “She is laying around her apartment, won’t come into the office, and is really just indifferent to staff and will scream at them,” the former aide said. “She is never in the office and is very disengaged. She does her bulls— that goes viral, and then freaks out over the most random things.” [Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on The Gateway Pundit.com] Democratic Party Future, Jasmine Crockett, U.S> Congress Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.