Ravens rookie Bilhal Kone suffers gruesome, season-ending injury in preseason game vs Colts
Baltimore Ravens Ravens rookie Bilhal Kone suffers gruesome, season-ending injury in preseason game vs Colts The 2025 sixth-round pick suffered a torn ligament in his knee, head coach John Harbaugh said By Paulina Dedaj Fox News Published August 8, 2025 11:30am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Fox News Flash top sports headlines for August 8 Fox News Flash top sports headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Baltimore Ravens cornerback Bilhal Kone suffered a gruesome leg injury during Thursday night’s preseason game against the Indianapolis Colts that will keep him sidelined for his rookie season. Ravens head coach John Harbaugh confirmed that Kone suffered a torn ligament in his knee when he went down near the sideline towards the end of the first quarter. Baltimore Ravens cornerback Bilhal Kone is carted off the field during the first half of an NFL preseason football game against the Indianapolis Colts on Thursday, Aug. 7, 2025, in Baltimore. (AP Photo/Nick Wass) "BK is going to be out for the season, it looks like," Harbaugh told reporters after the game. "He has some torn ligament in his knee, unfortunately." CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM Kone was injured while attempting to defend Colts receiver Ashton Dulin near the end zone. Social media videos showed his left leg bent at an awkward angle near the knee. He remained on the ground in visible pain before being carted off the field. Harbaugh said that it was difficult to see the young NFL player go down, especially considering how well he had been performing in the preseason match up. "Very emotional, playing well too. Man, that play made a heck of a play. And then even seeing him in the locker room right now is just really hard. Very hard. But, like I told him, the sun will come up tomorrow – if the sun doesn’t come up tomorrow, we’ve got much bigger problems." Baltimore Ravens cornerback Bilhal Kone is checked by a medical staff member after going down on a play against the Indianapolis Colts during the first half of an NFL preseason football game Thursday, Aug. 7, 2025, in Baltimore. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) COLTS QUARTERBACK ANTHONY RICHARDSON EXITS FIRST PRESEASON GAME WITH INJURY AFTER RAVENS SACK Harbaugh gave Kone a vote of confidence that he would be back. "So, the sun will come up tomorrow, you’ll get this taken care of, you’ll be rehabbing, you’re part of our team, and you’ll be back. . . . I think he’ll see that in due time." The Western Michigan standout was drafted by the Ravens in the sixth round back in April. In his final season there, Kone registered 70 total tackles and nine passes defended. Western Michigan defensive back Bilhal Kone (DB18) participates in drills during the 2025 NFL Combine at Lucas Oil Stadium on Feb. 28, 2025. (Kirby Lee/ Imagn Images) CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP He missed some time during training camp this summer with a shoulder injury. Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter. Paulina Dedaj is a Sports Reporter for Fox News Digital. Related Topics Baltimore Ravens NFL Indianapolis Colts Sports Fox News First Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!