‘The best is yet to come’ White House celebrates 200 days of Trump 2.0
‘The best is yet to come’: White House celebrates 200 days of Trump 2.0 By WND Staff August 7, 2025 President Trump and his administration are celebrating his 200th day as the 47th POTUS, listing many accomplishments realized since his inauguration Jan. 20, 2025. Notes a White House press release: “As President Donald J. Trump celebrates 200 days in office, the winning is never-ending – and if his first 100 days were historic, his second set was equally as impressive. From securing unprecedented trade deals and locking in massive investments to unleashing American energy dominance and ending woke culture, President Trump has accomplished more in his first 200 days than most administrations do over an entire term – and the best is yet to come.” Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! The list of “promises kept” begins with the historic passage of Trump’s “One Big Beautiful Bill,” which delivered “the largest tax cut in history for working- and middle-class Americans – including No Tax on Tips, No Tax on Overtime, and No Tax on Social Security – along with unprecedented tax relief for small businesses, farmers, workers, and families.” Other accomplishments cited include ongoing success on border security, “eight historic trade deals,” a windfall in the stock market and strengthening of religious- expression rights in the workplace. The White House also mentioned advances in AI and cryptocurrency, saying, “President Trump signed the GENIUS Act into law, establishing a regulatory framework for stablecoins and helping to ensure the U.S. remains the global leader in cryptocurrency, and unveiled a framework for achieving U.S. digital asset dominance – keeping President Trump’s promise to ensure the future of crypto is American.” Social media has lit up with various images marking the president’s 200th day. After 200 Days of @POTUS’ leadership, we are putting American Workers FIRST through laws like the Big, Beautiful Bill: ✅No tax on tips and overtime ✅Incentives for companies to invest in America ✅Pell Grants for trade schools and workforce development programs https://t.co/WroKwMZ8sn — Secretary Lori Chavez-DeRemer (@SecretaryLCD) August 7, 2025 Donald Trump, White House Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.