Cleaning house FBI fires former acting director, senior officials involved in J6 cases
Cleaning house: FBI fires former acting director, senior officials involved in J6 cases By Cristina Laila, the Gateway Pundit August 7, 2025 The FBI fired former Acting Director Brian Driscoll and other senior officials involved in January 6 cases and Trump witch hunts. CNN reported on Thursday that former Acting Director Brian Driscoll, Acting Director in charge of the Washington Field Office Steve Jensen, and special agent Walter Giardina have all been fired. Walter Giardia hunted down Trump Advisor Peter Navarro. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! More FBI firings to come. CNN reported: Two senior FBI officials, including one who initially resisted the Trump administration’s effort to gather the names of agents who worked on cases related to the US Capitol attack on January 6, 2021, are being fired, multiple sources tell CNN. Brian Driscoll, who was acting FBI director in the weeks before now-Director Kash Patel was confirmed, is being dismissed, sources said. Steve Jensen, the acting director in charge of the Washington Field Office, is also being fired, according to two separate sources. The administration has also fired other agents in the bureau this week who were perceived to be opposed to Trump in the past, according to three sources familiar with the agency’s actions. Earlier this year it was reported Driscoll refused to hand over the names of the officials involved in January 6 cases and Trump investigations. According to NBC News, there were more than 2,400 cases in total – and approximately 5,000 FBI employees involved. The FBI officials who worked on the J6 cases and Trump investigations were identified by a case management system. NBC News reporter Ken Dilanian said that the list does not include names of the agents, rather, the agents were identified by a number called a “unique employee identifier.” “The Justice Department, of course, can match the numbers with names on the payroll. But by leaving the names off, the FBI ensure that for now there is not a master list floating around of the names of people who worked on January 6th,” he said. According to CNN, Brian Driscoll sent the DOJ the names of the FBI officials – but he sent the list through a classified system! Good riddance. [Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on The Gateway Pundit.com] FBI Agents, January 6th, Kash Patel Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.