Trump orders ‘new and highly accurate’ census not counting illegals
Trump orders ‘new and highly accurate’ census not counting illegals By Jason Hopkins, Daily Caller News Foundation August 7, 2025 President Donald Trump gestures to troops after delivering remarks at Fort Bragg, North Carolina on Tuesday, June 10, 2025, during a visit to commemorate the 250th anniversary of the U.S. Army. (Official White House photo by Daniel Torok) President Donald Trump revealed on Thursday that he has ordered his administration to create a new census, in which illegal migrants will not be counted. The president — who has made immigration enforcement a top policy priority — ordered the Commerce Department to begin efforts on a new census based on figures that exclude the illegal migrant population and information gleaned from the 2024 presidential election. While estimates vary, some experts believe more than 18 million illegal migrants currently live in the U.S. “I have instructed our Department of Commerce to immediately begin work on a new and highly accurate CENSUS based on modern day facts and figures and, importantly, using the results and information gained from the Presidential Election of 2024,” Trump posted Thursday morning on his Truth Social account. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! “People who are in our Country illegally WILL NOT BE COUNTED IN THE CENSUS. Thank you for your attention to this matter,” the president continued with his announcement. In March, the Federation for American Immigration Reform estimated that a total of 18.6 million illegal migrants were currently living in the U.S., finding that the country’s population growth came “almost entirely” from high levels of both legal and illegal immigration. The census website currently estimates the total U.S. population to be over 342 million. The Census Bureau conducts a population count every decade, the results of which have major ramifications for the balance of political power throughout the U.S. The population count ultimately dictates reapportionment of the House of Representatives, leaving states with differing congressional seats and districts. Trump’s demand for a new count without illegal migrants will likely face litigation. When the president attempted to exclude illegal migrants from the 2020 Census during his first term in office, his administration was met with multiple lawsuits. The Census Bureau then admitted in 2022 that it had “significantly” miscounted the population in a quarter of the states. Democrats have openly admitted to supporting the inclusion of noncitizens for their benefit. In resurfaced comments, New York Democratic Rep. Yvette Clarke admitted she was eager to see immigrants enter the country to help her party with “redistricting purposes.” Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected]. Census, Donald Trump, illegal immigration Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.