WATCH 48 arrested in sting set up to target suspected child predators
WATCH: 48 arrested in sting set up to target suspected child predators By Bob Unruh August 6, 2025 Law-enforcement officials in the state of Florida have announced the arrests of 48 suspected child predators, who now have been charged with a laundry list of 153 counts. “As a father, I am outraged by the heinous crimes we spoke about today. As Attorney General, I’m proud of the brave officers behind this record-breaking operation,” explained Attorney General James Uthmeier in his announcement of the arrests. “They came after children, but Florida and federal law enforcement were waiting for them. Thanks to the Marion County Sheriff’s Office for putting this operation together so these men were stopped before they could harm a single child.” Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! Our Office of Statewide Prosecution was part of this sting and will hold these child predators accountable. Thank you to all of the law enforcement partners who helped get these demented criminals out of our community. https://t.co/LTPeoV6SP8 — Attorney General James Uthmeier (@AGJamesUthmeier) August 4, 2025 Marion County Sheriff Billy Woods was part of the operation, and added, “My office routinely conducts these types of operations. With each operation, we catch more and more. The number of offenders only goes up. “Parents, we will never arrest every single one of them. You have to know what your child is doing online, and children have to know what dangers are lurking online. As a sheriff and as a father, I understand the anger and disgust a parent has towards these types of individuals. I assure you that we will continue to attack this plague head on.” Among the suspects are six foreign nationals who were flagged with ICE detainers. The six-day operation targeted online child predators and was coordinated by Woods’ office. “Sheriff Woods and his deputies did an outstanding job catching and removing 40 predators from the Central Florida community,” said Bill Gladson, state attorney for the 5th Judicial circuit. Uthmeier’s office worked with nine law enforcement agencies across the region. The operation, targeting those who used social media or other communications apparently to target the children for sex, exposed the use of Snapchat as a platform to target children, the report said. “Predators used various online chat and gaming platforms, including Snapchat, in an attempt to message and meet with minors, which were actually undercover officers,” the AG reported. His office is suing Snapchat for “knowingly and willingly violating Florida law, including the protections enshrined in last year’s HB3 and the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade Practices Act.” It charges the company is actively deceiving parents about the risks associated with using the platform. Among the charges: 34 counts of traveling to meet a minor for illegal sexual contact, 48 counts of using a computer to solicit a child for sexual conduct, 40 counts of unlawful use of a two-way communications device to facilitate a felony, and many more. The Washington Stand called the operation a “powerful blow” against child predators. Uthmeier said, “To go after young kids, there is no defense, there is no justification, there is no excuse.” The suspected offenders were trying to meet up with children, who actually were law enforcement officers playing an online role. The report noted Joseph Backholm, Family Research Council’s senior fellow for Biblical Worldview and Strategic Engagement, told the Stand, “It’s wonderful that Florida and other law enforcement agencies around the country are dealing with this seriously.” But he said the source still needs to be attacked. “The problem of human trafficking begins where all sin begins, with pride. Once you decide you are more important than others, it’s not hard to decide that other people should serve your needs. Human trafficking and sexual exploitation are the worst examples of this, but far from the only examples.” Bob Unruh Bob Unruh joined WND in 2006 after nearly three decades with the Associated Press, as well as several Upper Midwest newspapers, where he covered everything from legislative battles and sports to tornadoes and homicidal survivalists. He is currently a news editor for the WND News Center, and also a photographer whose scenic work has been used commercially. Read more of Bob Unruh's articles here. Arrests, Child predators, Florida, Sting Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.