WATCH Penske complains U.S. government is using its trucks to round up illegal aliens
WATCH: Penske complains U.S. government is using its trucks to round up illegal aliens By Bob Unruh August 6, 2025 Officials with the Penske truck-rental company are now complaining that U.S. border-enforcement officers are using their trucks to round up illegal aliens in Los Angeles. They said the cargo areas of the trucks are not for passengers. But Homeland Security officials responded with a zinger, pointing out that the company was totally silent when law enforcement officers found 58 migrants “crammed” into another Penske truck. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! That was a case of alleged human smuggling. Care to remind the American people what Penske said when this happened? Silence speaks volumes. The brave agents of @ICEgov and @CBP will continue carrying out their mission to protect Americans. https://t.co/tuF06VNR5C pic.twitter.com/IHfr373W9A — Homeland Security (@DHSgov) August 6, 2025 Homeland Security said, on social media, “Care to remind the American people what Penske said when this happened? Silence speaks volumes. … The brave agents of @ICEgov and #CBP will continue carrying out their mission to protect Americans.” The human smuggling case was from two years ago, in Texas, when Marquez Oviel, an illegal alien from Mexico, was arrested and charged with human smuggling counts. Penske, in a statement, said it was “aware” of reports that DHS agents were using a Penske truck. “Penske strictly prohibits the transportation of people in the cargo area of its vehicles under any circumstances. The company was not made aware that its trucks would be used in today’s operation and did not authorize this. Penske will reach out to DHS and reinforce its policy to avoid improper use of its vehicles in the future.” Breaking: DHS arrives in Penske trucks at a Home Depot in McArthur Park area of LA for early morning immigration enforcement. The area was filled with migrants who scattered. DHS says MS 13 has a chokehold on this area, which is one reason they’re carrying out the highly… pic.twitter.com/hTskuM9Q4l — Matt Finn (@MattFinnFNC) August 6, 2025 Social media commenters took advantage of the company’s statement, with, “Have you considered crying about it?” and “Okay well now I will never rent a Penske truck for the rest of my life.” Bob Unruh Bob Unruh joined WND in 2006 after nearly three decades with the Associated Press, as well as several Upper Midwest newspapers, where he covered everything from legislative battles and sports to tornadoes and homicidal survivalists. He is currently a news editor for the WND News Center, and also a photographer whose scenic work has been used commercially. Read more of Bob Unruh's articles here. Border Patrol, Border security, Donald Trump, Homeland Security, ICE Agents, illegal aliens, Penske Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.