Hollywood actress now calling herself a man is new ‘male role model’ for captive young schoolchildren
Hollywood actress now calling herself a man is new ‘male role model’ for captive young schoolchildren By Bob Unruh August 6, 2025 John Wayne Male role models aren’t what they used to be, when John Wayne shot up bad guys on screen in “True Grit” and Clint Eastwood threatened, “Make my day.” Now one such “male role model” is, in fact, a woman. According to the Telegraph in the United Kingdom, it is in a primary school, Streatham Wells School in London, where Ellen Page, now calling herself Elliott, has been positioned as a positive example of masculinity for students. Ellen Page starring in ‘Juno’ before she transitioned (Fox Searchlight Pictures) Page is a Canadian actor born female who now calls herself a man. Page is perhaps best known for her role as a pregnant teen in 2007’s “Juno” and starring alongside Leonardo DiCaprio in 2010’s “Inception.” Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! Ellen Page (Elliot Page) Before trans vs After. Page previously claimed she experiences ‘Trans Joy’ everyday since her transition. Does she look happy and healthy after becoming trans and taking hormones? pic.twitter.com/sYTu6gJrFT — Oli London (@OliLondonTV) March 19, 2024 The school promotes Page as a man who shows masculinity “can mean softness and strength.” The publication reported it was in an article for a newsletter called Teachwire that Sarah Wordlaw, the head teacher, explained her agenda to influence children. She wrote, in the report, “It is important to teach pupils about harmful stereotypes about masculinity. However, if the first time we teach and name masculinity is calling it toxic, that could do more damage than good to our boys. It is extremely important to teach about positive masculinities. We need to encourage empathy, kindness, showing emotions, listening to alternative points of view and developing emotional literacy.” She continued, “Undoing the deeply ingrained gender stereotypes in our society takes time. It’s certainly not a quick fix. We have seen a significant improvement in children’s awareness of key issues surrounding gender equality. They know how to use their voice to advocate for others.” Ellen (Elliot) Page through the years She said next will be indoctrination in the school curriculum. “This is not just representation of the amazing, strong women who have shaped global history, but also representation of positive masculinity,” she explained. “We need to show that to be a man is not to be simply one thing.” According to the Christian Institute, the school is facing online criticism for its agenda, with one commenter explaining, “Elliot Page is female and everyone knows it, including herself. This is lying to children and promoting a dangerous ideology.” Another warned, “There will be some very confused children in that school.” Guidance for schools in England charges, “Schools should be mindful that beyond the facts and the law about biological sex and gender reassignment there is significant debate, and they should be careful not to endorse any particular view or teach it as fact.” Institute Deputy Director Simon Calvert said, “Muddying the waters around teaching on gender identity is the last thing we need right now.” WATCH the trailer for “Juno”: Bob Unruh Bob Unruh joined WND in 2006 after nearly three decades with the Associated Press, as well as several Upper Midwest newspapers, where he covered everything from legislative battles and sports to tornadoes and homicidal survivalists. He is currently a news editor for the WND News Center, and also a photographer whose scenic work has been used commercially. Read more of Bob Unruh's articles here. Ellen Page, Elliot Page, Grade school students, Teacher's indoctrination, transgender Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.