Tariff on India hits 50%, triggered by nation’s allegiance to Moscow
Tariff on India hits 50%, triggered by nation’s allegiance to Moscow By Bob Unruh August 6, 2025 President Donald Trump signs new tariffs in the White House Rose Garden on Liberation Day, Wednesday, April 2, 2025 (Official White House photo) The tariffs on products from India now have hit 50%, as President Donald Trump has piled a new 25% cost on top of the previous 25%, and it’s all because of that nation’s allegiance to Moscow. The Washington Examiner reports Trump’s executive order raising the tariffs specifically stated, “I find that the Government of India is currently directly or indirectly importing Russian Federation oil.” Trump has worked to implement policies and practices for the United States around the world that reduce oil revenues for Russia, which has been using them to fund its invasion of Ukraine. “Trump announced that he would impose a new 25% tariff on goods from India as well as an additional import tax for purchasing Russian oil,” the report said. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! He was critical of Indian officials for buying military equipment and energy supplies from Russia when “everyone wants Russia to STOP THE KILLING IN UKRAINE.” Officials in India have given no indication they’ll change their procedures. These tariffs are part of Trump’s campaign to de-escalate, even end, the war in Russia, launched by Russia’s invasion and continued by Ukraine’s decision to fight back. Trump also has been using tariffs, or the threat of tariffs, to push nations around the world into agreeing to fair trade agreements with the U.S. Its consumers and businesses have been subsidizing the incomes of other nations for years with unbalanced trade requirements, Bob Unruh Bob Unruh joined WND in 2006 after nearly three decades with the Associated Press, as well as several Upper Midwest newspapers, where he covered everything from legislative battles and sports to tornadoes and homicidal survivalists. He is currently a news editor for the WND News Center, and also a photographer whose scenic work has been used commercially. Read more of Bob Unruh's articles here. Donald Trump, india, Russian oil, tariffs, Trump's Tariffs Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.