‘Highly productive meeting’ Ukraine war coming to an end
‘Highly productive meeting’: Ukraine war coming to an end? By WND Staff August 6, 2025 President Donald Trump participates in the swearing-in ceremony for Senior Adviser and Special Envoy Steve Witkoff, Tuesday, May 6, 2025, in the Oval Office. Vice President JD Vance attends. (Official White House photo by Emily J. Higgins) President Trump posted to Truth Social today that special envoy Steve Witkoff had just had a “highly productive” meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin as the administration continues to negotiate an end to the Russia-Ukraine war. Trump wrote: “My Special Envoy, Steve Witkoff, just had a highly productive meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Great progress was made! Afterwards, I updated some of our European Allies. Everyone agrees this War must come to a close, and we will work towards that in the days and weeks to come. Thank you for your attention to this matter!” Recently, the president has expressed frustration with Putin over U.S. efforts to end the war. Last month Trump gave Putin a 50-day deadline to reach a ceasefire deal, and then reduced to 10 days. That was eight days ago. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! Trump’s punishment for failure was to impose sanctions and secondary tariffs on nations that purchase Russian oil and gas. Reportedly, the meeting between Putin and Witkoff, held at the Kremlin, lasted about three hours. Trump: We had some very good talks with President Putin today… and there’s a good chance there will be a meeting very soon. Reporter: How close are we to a deal? Trump: I don’t want to say. I’ve been disappointed before. pic.twitter.com/w8AaONe94O — Margarita Simonyan (@M_Simonyan) August 6, 2025 Ceasefire deadline, Russia, Russia-Ukraine war, Ukraine, Vladimir Putin Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.