Report FBI refused to investigate role Obama’s attorney general played in suppressing Hillary email scandal
Report: FBI refused to investigate role Obama’s attorney general played in suppressing Hillary email scandal By Bob Unruh August 6, 2025 Hillary Clinton and Loretta Lynch The administration of President Donald Trump has released reams of previously secret government documents that now document the manipulations and machinations of those in the Barack Obama administration to try to torpedo Trump. That includes evidence that the highest officials in the land, from Obama on down through then-Vice President Joe Biden and twice-failed Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton and more conspired to create lies linking Trump’s campaign to Russia, the “Russiagate” ideology, leaving multiple federal laws in tatters. Those agendas and actions, now revealed, have triggered developing congressional and Department of Justice investigations into those individuals who, reports have confirmed, could face felony counts. They also likely are not protected by a statute of limitations argument, even though the events date back years, because that time frame starts running only when the conspiracy’s last events are uncovered. Now one facet that remains to be investigated – and possibly prosecuted – has been revealed by Federalist, which reported that the FBI never investigated allegations then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch “coordinated with the Clinton campaign to suppress Hillary Clinton’s email server scandal.” Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! In that scenario, Clinton was under fire for placing national security secrets on a private computer server in her home. At the time, James Comey, then of the FBI, bypassed protocols and arbitrarily announced no prosecutor would pursue such a case, essentially giving Clinton a pass. The details have come out of the Clinton annex, a cache of documents released by Sen. Chuck Grassley, as well as the Durham Appendix, more recently released. Those documents now appear “to confirm long-held suspicions about how the Clinton investigation was handled,” the report explained. Among the details now emerging are communications between senior Open Society official Leonard Benardo, another foundation figure, Jeffrey Goldstein, and Debbie Wasserman Schultz, then the head of the Democrat National Committee, the report said. For example, one memo explains that during a conversation with Goldstein, Schultz revealed Obama of pressuring Comey, through Lynch, to shut the investigation down, because it was damaging the Democrats and “threatening Obama’s legacy.” The report said Schultz stated, “Obama has no intention to darken the final part of his presidency and ‘legacy’ by the scandal surrounding the main contender from the DP [Democratic Party]. To solve the problem, the President puts pressure on FBI Director James Comey through Attorney General Lynch, however, so far without concrete results.” A later conversation between the two made it worse, ““The political director of the Hillary Clinton staff Amanda Renteria regularly receives information from Attorney General Loretta Lynch on the plans and intentions of the FBI.” The Federalist noted, “If true, this would mean that while the FBI was actively investigating Clinton, the sitting Attorney General was secretly updating her campaign on its progress, compromising not only the DOJ’s independence, but the entire premise of equal justice under law.” And the memo states Obama “sanctioned the use of all administrative levers to remove possibly negative effects from the FBI investigation of cases related to the Clinton Foundation and the email correspondence in the State Department.” The report cited original documentation to note that when confronted, Lynch was “stone-faced” and said nothing about the memos. The report said substantiation for the information in the government documents is yet to be available, but “we do know that other parts of the same intelligence stream — specifically details of the Clinton plan to smear Trump with false Russia allegations — align perfectly with events as they unfolded.” The report said, “That leaves us with plausible intelligence suggesting the sitting attorney general may have secretly assured Clinton allies that the FBI’s criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails would go nowhere.” The report added, “Even Lynch’s alleged insistence that Comey publicly refer to the Clinton probe as a ‘matter’ rather than an ‘investigation’ suggested a deliberate effort to downplay and contain the scandal, an effort further underscored by her infamous secret tarmac meeting with Bill Clinton just days before the email investigation was closed.” Bob Unruh Bob Unruh joined WND in 2006 after nearly three decades with the Associated Press, as well as several Upper Midwest newspapers, where he covered everything from legislative battles and sports to tornadoes and homicidal survivalists. He is currently a news editor for the WND News Center, and also a photographer whose scenic work has been used commercially. Read more of Bob Unruh's articles here. Barack Obama, Email scandal, FBI, Hillary Clinton, Loretta Lynch Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.