‘Vigilance and resolve’ Watch Harmeet Dhillon launch legal blitz to clean up voter rolls, end ‘race-based gerrymandering’
‘Vigilance and resolve’: Watch Harmeet Dhillon launch legal blitz to clean up voter rolls, end ‘race-based gerrymandering’ By Jim Hoft, The Gateway Pundit August 6, 2025 Assistant Attorney General Harmeet Dhillon In a powerful video statement released on X, Assistant Attorney General Harmeet Dhillon pulled no punches as she announced a sweeping legal crackdown aimed at securing America’s elections and ripping apart the Democrats’ web of gerrymandered districts and bloated voter rolls. Dhillon, serving under the leadership of President Donald Trump and Attorney General Pam Bondi, declared that her office is taking direct aim at “illegal race-based gerrymandering” and widespread voter roll irregularities that have plagued Democrat strongholds for years. Dhillon’s Civil Rights Division has already launched lawsuits against states like North Carolina for failing to properly verify voter eligibility. She is also putting Texas on notice for drawing congressional districts allegedly based on racial motivations. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! Harmeet Dhillon: “Our constitutional duty is to protect the right to vote for all Americans. Sixty years ago, Congress passed the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to confront the brutal reality that too many Americans were being denied their rightful access to the ballot. The Voting Rights Act came at a critical time in our nation’s history and was the catalyst for necessary change. This landmark law removed barriers to voting. It outlawed poll taxes and literacy tests and gave the federal government the tools to stop discriminatory barriers at the ballot box. Today, under the leadership of President Trump and Attorney General Pam Bondi, this Civil Rights Division is continuing to protect equal and transparent ballot access with vigilance and resolve. We are investigating violations of federal voting laws. We’re ensuring that all 50 states have — and continue to have — clean voter rolls. We are challenging efforts to suppress or dilute the vote. We are attacking illegal race-based gerrymandering, and we are protecting ballot access for all Americans. We have sued jurisdictions such as North Carolina for not registering voters properly by first verifying their eligibility. We have notified Texas of grave concerns about congressional districts drawn with racial motivations, and we are suing other jurisdictions where there is evidence of ineligible voters on their voter rolls. Our job is to make it easier to vote and harder to cheat. On this anniversary, we honor the Voting Rights Act not just by remembering it, but by enforcing it for all Americans. And that’s my promise to you.” WATCH: Today, the Voting Rights Act turns 60 but we’re not just marking history. We’re enforcing the law. Under @AAGDhillon, we’re: ✅ Suing over ineligible voters on rolls ✅ Challenging race-based redistricting ✅ Demanding voter eligibility verification ✅ Protecting ballot access… pic.twitter.com/09yQAEmU6e — DOJ Civil Rights Division (@CivilRights) August 6, 2025 [Editor’s note: This article originally appeared on The Gateway Pundit.com] Department of Justice, Gerrymandering, Harmeet Dhillon, Voter fraud Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.