‘Vicious crimes’ Vance, Bondi, Patel to huddle at VP residence for Epstein strategy meeting
‘Vicious crimes’: Vance, Bondi, Patel to huddle at VP residence for Epstein strategy meeting By WND Staff August 6, 2025 Vice President Kamala Harris hosts a dinner for Democratic women governors, Friday, Oct. 22, 2021, at the vice president’s residence at the Naval Observatory in Washington, D.C. (Official White House photo by Lawrence Jackson) A dinner at the vice president’s residence scheduled for Wednesday evening is being described as a strategy session to discuss how the Trump administration should handle the ongoing controversy surrounding the Jeffrey Epstein files. According to Fox News, attendees will include Vice President JD Vance, Attorney General Pam Bondi, FBI Director Kash Patel and Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche. The latter recently spent two days interviewing convicted Epstein associate Ghislaine Maxwell in prison. White House chief of staff Susie Wiles is also expected to be in attendance, according to sources familiar with the confab. Vice President JD Vance (White House intern photo by Julian Casciano) News of the dinner was first reported by CNN. It comes after weeks of unsuccessful attempts by senior Trump officials to quell mounting public pressure, from both Republicans and Democrats, to release more information related to the Epstein investigation. The controversy grew exponentially after the release of a Justice Department memo July 7 noting that no new information about Epstein would be released. Soon afterward, news broke that Deputy FBI Director Dan Bongino was considering resigning over how the issue was handled. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! Most recently, the White House and DOJ have been at odds over whether to release an audio file and transcript from Blanche’s interview with Maxwell late last month, senior administration officials confirmed to Fox News. News of the vice president’s dinner prompted fresh concerns from family members of Epstein victim Virginia Roberts Giuffre, who committed suicide earlier this year. ‘You’ll never guess who I’m with?’: Virginia Giuffre texted a friend about London trip with Prince Andrew, Ghislaine Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein “We understand that Vice President JD Vance will hold a strategy session this evening at his residence with administration officials,” Giuffre’s sibling said in a statement. “Missing from this group is, of course, any survivor of the vicious crimes of convicted perjurer and sex trafficker Ghislaine Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein. Their voices must be heard, above all,” they said. The meeting comes two days before Vance and his family begin their summer vacation in the U.K. JD Vance, Jeffrey Epstein files, Kash Patel, Pam Bondi, Virginia Giuffre Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.