‘Stay inside’ Casualties at Georgia Army base as active shooter opens fire
Suspect in Army-base shooting identified as American soldier By Joe Kovacs August 6, 2025 The U.S. Army has lifted its lockdown at Fort Stewart in Georgia Wednesday after an active shooter incident caused at least five casualties of U.S. soldiers. #BREAKING: ACTIVE SHOOTER SITUATION IN FORT STEWART: Footage of soldiers on base running into shelter. Initial radio traffic suggests the possibility of two shooters, with one suspect already in custody; 5 injured. SHELTER-IN-PLACE IS ACTIVE. https://t.co/jgBv3KaV6x pic.twitter.com/KC3dtUpc2D — Breaking News (@TheNewsTrending) August 6, 2025 Fort Stewart Officials Confirm Active Shooter Incident Ft Stewart is in a lockdown status due to an active shooter incident in the 2nd Armored Brigade Combat Team area. The installation was locked down at 11:04 a.m. and law enforcement is on the scene at this time. pic.twitter.com/A4Gx84ickb — News Channel3 Now (@newschannel3now) August 6, 2025 Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! The five injured soldiers are all in stable condition, and the suspect, a U.S. Army sergeant at the base, is in custody after being tackled by fellow soldiers. U.S. Army Sgt. Quornelius Radford The suspect is identified as Sgt. Quornelius Radford, assigned to a sustainment unit in the 2nd Brigade at Ft. Stewart. “The shooting occurred at the soldier’s place of work,” said Brig. Gen. John Lubas, 3rd Infantry commanding general. “I would also like to thank the brave soldiers who immediately intervened and subdued the shooter. These soldiers without a doubt prevented further casualties.” Brig. Gen. John Lubas, 3rd Infantry commanding general “It was not a military weapon. It was personal handgun.” BREAKING: ALL 5 soldiers who were shot at Fort Stewart are now in STABLE CONDITION 3 of them underwent surgery, but are expected to survive their injuries Thank the LORD Several brave soldiers intervened and subdued the shooter, Quornelius Radford, saving countless lives… pic.twitter.com/YxkRB2yeaH — Nick Sortor (@nicksortor) August 6, 2025 “We’re still not certain about the motivations.” Fox News reported the five shot were soldiers who were treated at the scene before being transported to a local hospital. “We are currently assessing the situation but we can confirm an active shooter,” Lt. Col. Angel Tomko said. The Associated Press reports: “A post on Fort Stewart’s Facebook page told all personnel in the locked down area to ‘stay inside, close and lock all windows and doors.'” FORT STEWART MASS SHOOTING UPDATE: 12:15 pm The Initial dispatch was for a Gunshot wound at Building 8420 – 2nd brigade – Initial report 7 SHOT, 4 CRITICAL 1 Shooter in Custody, 1 Barricaded in Building 703 pic.twitter.com/lYmmsJ0uwd — BREAKING NOW !! (@GRapidsnews) August 6, 2025 White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said: “The President has been briefed on the shooting at Fort Stewart in Georgia. The White House is monitoring the situation.” pic.twitter.com/0wK1t6WemO — FBI Atlanta (@FBIAtlanta) August 6, 2025 The shooting reportedly began in the in the 2nd Armored Brigade Combat Team area. BREAKING: Chaos at Fort Stewart as soldiers scramble for cover amid active shooter threat. Base remains on lockdown amid reports of a possible second gunman in the area. Multiple casualties confirmed. Keep our troops in your prayers. pic.twitter.com/J1txrYoHbu — Juan Torres (@juanpodcast1) August 6, 2025 Fort Stewart is the largest Army post east of the Mississippi River, with 15,000 active duty soldiers. ADDITIONAL INFO… #FtStewart is located in eastern #Georgia, just west of Savannah. #ActiveShooter pic.twitter.com/K7wlv1aG8e — Steve Norris (@SteveNorrisTV) August 6, 2025 Gov. Brian Kemp said on X: “As we remain in close contact with law enforcement on the ground, Marty, the girls, and I are saddened by today’s tragedy at Ft. Stewart. We are keeping the victims, their families, and all those who answer the call to serve in our hearts and prayers, and we ask that Georgians everywhere do the same.” As we remain in close contact with law enforcement on the ground, Marty, the girls, and I are saddened by today’s tragedy at Ft. Stewart. We are keeping the victims, their families, and all those who answer the call to serve in our hearts and prayers, and we ask that Georgians… — Governor Brian P. Kemp (@GovKemp) August 6, 2025 Our federal law enforcement agents in Georgia are coordinating to provide support as the situation at Fort Stewart develops. I am praying for all the victims and for our troops at the base. — Attorney General Pamela Bondi (@AGPamBondi) August 6, 2025 I have been briefed on the shooting at Fort Stewart. @DHSgov is actively monitoring the situation on the ground. We are praying for the victims and their families. — Secretary Kristi Noem (@Sec_Noem) August 6, 2025 Is the news we hear every day actually broadcasting messages from God? The answer is an absolute yes! Find out how! Follow Joe on X @JoeKovacsNews Joe Kovacs Executive News Editor Joe Kovacs is the author of the new best-selling book, "Reaching God Speed: Unlocking the Secret Broadcast Revealing the Mystery of Everything." His previous books include "Shocked by the Bible 2: Connecting the Dots in Scripture to Reveal the Truth They Don't Want You to Know," a follow-up to his No. 1 best-seller "Shocked by the Bible: The Most Astonishing Facts You've Never Been Told" as well as "The Divine Secret: The Awesome and Untold Truth about Your Phenomenal Destiny." He is an award-winning journalist of more than 20 years in American TV, radio and the internet, and is also a former editor at the Budapest Business Journal in Europe. Read more of Joe Kovacs's articles here. Fort Stewart shooting, U.S. Army Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.