‘I just don’t even know what to say!’ Cincinnati mob-attack victim bursts into tears in heart-wrenching interview as Americans shower her with support
‘I just don’t even know what to say!’ Cincinnati mob-attack victim bursts into tears in heart-wrenching interview as Americans shower her with support By Joe Kovacs August 6, 2025 Holly The white woman who was knocked unconscious last month by a black mob in Cincinnati broke down in tears Wednesday as she reacted to the outpouring of love and financial support she’s receiving from the public. “My little one who needs the help, we were going to be on the streets. I just don’t even know what to say!” cried Holly, who covered her face as she burst into tears during an interview with Benny Johnson, the journalist who created her GiveSendGo fundraiser page. This is the most important video you will watch all day… Holly, the Cincinnati mob attack victim, breaks down in real tears, moved by the overwhelming love and support from her fellow Americans. “My little one who needs the help, we were going to be on the streets. I just… pic.twitter.com/iazGaZcLno — Benny Johnson (@bennyjohnson) August 6, 2025 As of Wednesday, total donations were approximately $530,000, with gifts from across America including one from Hollywood actor Charlie Sheen. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! Through her crying, Holly said she was impressed by “the love from everyone and the humanity and the wishes and the peace. “It just made me see how many people out there are still good because for so long I thought the whole country was full of shame and hate. “I just want you all to know, too, that you guys have a community of love. I don’t even know what to say. You’re all just beautiful humans and let’s just keep moving forward with love.” Is the news we hear every day actually broadcasting messages from God? The answer is an absolute yes! Find out how! Johnson noted: “You haven’t just shown kindness, you’ve saved a life. God bless every one of you. Remember, we are America.” Online reaction to Holly’s tears includes: “This is so raw and real and touching – I’m humbled to be a part of the community of Americans who came together to support this woman and her family.” “This brought tears to my eyes. Holly’s strength and gratitude are incredibly moving. It’s amazing to see people come together in love and compassion a true reminder of the heart and soul of this country. Praying for her continued healing and safety.” “God Bless the true American spirit that shows love when we need it most.” “This is very heartbreaking makes me sad and angry, at the same time!!! GOD BLESS YOU, HOLLY!!!!!” “The American people are the best! It’s unfortunate that a small segment of our society cause pain and suffering to their fellow Americans! There are more good people in this country than bad and it’s not even close!” “This is so touching. Nothing more American than rallying around in total support no questions asked! Amen!” “This must be overwhelming. Of course several Cincinnati leaders are stuck that the brawl was not targeted. Can you imagine what the press would be had been if a white group beat a middle age woman of color for trying to break up a fight? Downtown needs to feel a boycott.” 5 CHARGED IN CINCINNATI STREET BRAWL WHERE WOMAN WAS KNOCKED OUT@JesseBWatters “It’s a fight you can’t win” pic.twitter.com/VlDkaqYV1i — The Five (@TheFive) July 30, 2025 “The Democrats’ campaign of hate, terrorism, and mob violence must stop. Politicians who continue to incite and endorse racial and political violence must be prosecuted and imprisoned, or sued civilly, and bankrupted. I hope Holly secures the best law firms available and launches civil suits against the mayor and police commissioner of Cincinnati and the others involved in creating the conditions of the attack, to completely bankrupt them as it seems clear that this is the only way things will change. Hopefully, she can take some of the donated money and move to a safer place to live.” The FBI announced a fifth person allegedly involved in the vicious beatings was arrested this week, and is reportedly Holly’s personal attacker. Just before 4 p.m. today, the FBI Atlanta Metropolitan Major Offenders Task Force arrested Patrick Rosemund in Atlanta—the fifth suspect wanted in connection with the viral brawl in downtown Cincinnati on July 26. We’re proud to support our partners in getting violent offenders… pic.twitter.com/VJSOICDcSa — FBI Atlanta (@FBIAtlanta) August 4, 2025 Patrick Rosemond was taken into custody in Atlanta, Georgia, on Monday afternoon, and is facing charges of felonious assault and aggravated riot. Patrick Rosemond WLWT-TV in Cincinnati reported: “Rosemond is the suspect accused of hitting the victim named Holly.” Follow Joe on X @JoeKovacsNews ‘We are all rooting for you’: Hollywood star pitches in to help Holly, white victim of ferocious Cincinnati mob attack WATCH: Vivek Ramaswamy hosts Cincinnati town hall after viral black-on-white beating ‘Very bad brain trauma’: Watch Holly speak for first time since Cincinnati beating as black pastor wants WHITE VICTIMS arrested and mugshots publicized ‘They begged for that beat down!’ Top Cincinnati official allegedly ‘grateful’ after black mob pummels whites ‘Unacceptable’: White woman viciously pummeled by Cincinnati mob reveals maddening detail in wake of brutal attack ‘Exclusion of white men’: Cincinnati police chief who scolded people for sharing video of black mob gets sued ‘Throw their a**es in prison’: Cincinnati cops ID suspects as JD Vance targets ‘mob of lawless thugs’ who brutally attacked whites ‘Nothing short of cruel’: Watch whites viciously pummeled by blacks in graphic attack ignored by national media Joe Kovacs Executive News Editor Joe Kovacs is the author of the new best-selling book, "Reaching God Speed: Unlocking the Secret Broadcast Revealing the Mystery of Everything." His previous books include "Shocked by the Bible 2: Connecting the Dots in Scripture to Reveal the Truth They Don't Want You to Know," a follow-up to his No. 1 best-seller "Shocked by the Bible: The Most Astonishing Facts You've Never Been Told" as well as "The Divine Secret: The Awesome and Untold Truth about Your Phenomenal Destiny." He is an award-winning journalist of more than 20 years in American TV, radio and the internet, and is also a former editor at the Budapest Business Journal in Europe. Read more of Joe Kovacs's articles here. Benny Johnson, Cincinnati, Cincinnati racial attack, GiveSendGo, Holly, Patrick Rosemund, Violent Racial Tensions Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.