WATCH Trump officials unveil new migrant ‘Speedway Slammer’ in Indiana
WATCH: Trump officials unveil new migrant ‘Speedway Slammer’ in Indiana By Jason Hopkins, Daily Caller News Foundation August 6, 2025 Speedway Slammer (DHS image) The Trump administration unveiled a new partnership with Indiana to lock away hundreds more criminal illegal migrants. The Indiana Department of Corrections is working with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to expand detention space by 1,000 beds, according to a press release by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The new project — dubbed the “Speedway Slammer” — will be located at the Miami Correctional Center in Bunker Hill, Indiana, marking the second state partnership with federal immigration authorities. “COMING SOON to Indiana: The Speedway Slammer. Today, we’re announcing a new partnership with the state of Indiana to expand detention bed space by 1,000 beds,” DHS Secretary Kristi Noem said Tuesday. “Thanks to Governor Braun for his partnership to help remove the worst of the worst out of our country.” Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! The Speedway Slammer pic.twitter.com/fXlTgWW8jA — Homeland Security (@DHSgov) August 5, 2025 “If you are in America illegally, you could find yourself in Indiana’s Speedway Slammer,” Noem continued. “Avoid arrest and self deport now using the CBP Home App.” The nickname is ostensibly about the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, a famous motor racing circuit located in Speedway, Indiana. DHS credited the new partnership to the passage of the Big Beautiful Bill, which “fully funded” 287(g) — a program that deputizes local law enforcement with immigration authorities — and provides tax dollars for 80,000 new beds, which ICE can utilize to detain and deport illegal migrants. The upcoming expansion intends to hold the “worst of the worst” illegal migrants. “We are proud to work with President Trump and Secretary Noem as they remove the worst of the worst with this innovative partnership,” Indiana GOP Gov. Mike Braun said in a public statement. “Indiana is taking a comprehensive and collaborative approach to combating illegal immigration and will continue to lead the way among states.” THE SPEEDWAY SLAMMER. Under 287g authority, state and local law enforcement can now assist with immigration functions, including: arrests, transportation, and detention. 287g is a force multiplier in completing the President’s mission and making America SAFE again. pic.twitter.com/WoeFckyVBw — Homeland Security (@DHSgov) August 6, 2025 The Speedway Slammer was just the latest cooperation agreement between Indiana and federal immigration authorities. Braun unveiled a 287(g) partnership between the Indiana Department of Homeland Security and ICE on Friday, which his office stated would “enhance collaboration” with state and local law enforcement to remove criminal migrants. Similar agreements were also made with the Indiana State Police and the Indiana Department of Correction. The Speedway Slammer is the second state partnership expanding ICE detention after the opening of Alligator Alcatraz, a migrant detention center in the middle of the Everglades in Florida. The facility, which was born out of a virtually abandoned airfield, is expected to cost around $450 million a year and will feature 5,000 beds to house illegal migrants and other foreign nationals under federal immigration detention. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected]. Department of Homeland Security, Deportations, Indiana, Kristi Noem, Speedway Slammer Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.