WATCH Adam Schiff reportedly under federal criminal investigation for alleged mortgage fraud
WATCH: Adam Schiff reportedly under federal criminal investigation for alleged mortgage fraud By Mariane Angela, Daily Caller News Foundation August 6, 2025 U.S. Sen. Adam Schiff, D-Calif. Fox News host Laura Ingraham reported Tuesday that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Maryland is investigating Democratic California Sen. Adam Schiff for alleged mortgage fraud. The probe follows a month-old revelation that the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) had referred Schiff’s case to the Department of Justice (DOJ), accusing him of falsifying bank documents and property records to secure more favorable loan terms, according to Fox News. Schiff and his wife allegedly misrepresented their Maryland home as their primary residence to obtain a lower interest rate on a Fannie Mae-backed mortgage, according to the FHFA’s letter. They allegedly continued this misrepresentation through multiple refinancing transactions from 2003 to 2019, despite Schiff representing California in Congress during that period. Get the hottest, most important news stories on the Internet – delivered FREE to your inbox as soon as they break! Take just 30 seconds and sign up for WND's Email News Alerts! WATCH: Additionally, Schiff claimed a homeowner’s tax exemption on a condominium in Burbank, Calif., all while designating the Maryland property as his primary residence. The FHFA’s referral suggests potential violations of federal criminal codes, including wire fraud, mail fraud, bank fraud, and making false statements to financial institutions. CNN first reported in November 2023 that Schiff claimed both a Maryland property and a condo in Burbank as his primary residences. “I think just about every member of Congress has a residence in their state and a residence back in D.C. since we’re in session much of the week and people make a family decision where they’re going to have their kids,” Schiff said in 2023. “And but our principal residence, our primary residence, is in California and always has been and always will be.” Schiff’s office did not immediately respond to the Daily Caller News Foundation’s request for comment. Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected]. Adam Schiff, Laura Ingraham, Mortgage fraud Leave a Comment You must be logged in to post a comment.