Go fishing without breaking the bank with these budget-friendly fishing gadgets
Deals Go fishing without breaking the bank with these budget-friendly fishing gadgets Reel in savings with this affordable gear By Christopher Murray Fox News Fox News may earn a commission if you buy through our referral links. This content was created by a team that works independently from the Fox newsroom. Published August 8, 2025 11:23am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Print Email Fishing doesn’t have to be expensive. You can get poles, tackle bags and lures for less. (iStock) Getting into fishing is an exhilarating experience that makes you feel more connected to nature. Suddenly you’re part of one of the world’s oldest water sports. But a new hobby also means a lot of new gear, and the cost can add up quickly. Luckily, many companies make budget-friendly options that work just as well as their costly counterparts, especially when you’re starting out. Poles There are many different price points for fishing poles. Beginners who want an easy-to-use pole can find options from brands like Ugly Stik and Daiwa, both of which are reliable brands. Ugly Stik complete spincast reel and rod kit: on sale for $38.24 (19% off) Original price: $46.99 A great rod and reel combo for beginner anglers. (Amazon) Amazon $46.99 $38.24 Ugly Stik is a great budget-friendly brand, and the Ugly Stik complete spincast kit comes with everything you need to get started. You get a rod and reel combo, plus a nine-piece saltwater tackle kit. The classic Ugly Stik tech combines graphite and fiberglass to create a lightweight, yet sensitive rod. The pre-spooled reel means you’re ready to fish as soon as you take off the cardboard. If you're an Amazon Prime member, you can get these items sent to your door ASAP. You can join or start a 30-day free trial to start your shopping today. Plusinno telescoping fishing rod and reel combo: on sale for $32.97 (34% off) Original price: $49.99 A telescoping rod and reel is easy to pack with you whenever you head on the water. (Amazon) Amazon $49.99 $32.97 When you choose the Plusinno fishing rod and reel combo, you get a telescoping pole that can easily be stored in your backpack or car for fishing on the go. Made from carbon fiber mixed with fiberglass, you get a hard and durable fishing pole. The stainless-steel reel seat is strong and won’t break, plus the anti-reverse system stops your line from tangling. THE ANGLER’S GUIDE TO THE BEST FISHING RODS Daiwa D-Shock rod and reel combo: $29.99 This budget-friendly rod and reel is lightweight and easy to use. (Amazon) Amazon $33.12 The Daiwa D-Shock rod and reel combo is easy to use and made from lightweight fiberglass. There are cork grips on the rod that make it easy to hold while you’re casting and especially while you’re reeling in your catch. Tackle, hooks and lures A big part of fishing is ensuring you have the right tackle. There are hundreds of options, but the ones below can help you stick to a budget while still reeling in a huge catch. Fishing hooks set: on sale for $12.99 (32% off) Original price: $18.99 Never run out of hooks with this 400-hook set. (Amazon) Amazon $18.99 $12.99 Get all the hooks you need in this fishing hooks set. Included are 400 hooks in eight different sizes, all organized in the included tackle box. You can use different sized hooks for different sized fish in all different types of environments, saltwater and freshwater included. LEARN TO FISH WITH THESE FISHING ESSENTIALS Eagle Claw plain shank fish hooks 6-pack: $3.09 Catch trout, panfish and sunfish with these size 10 hooks. (Walmart) Eagle Claw fish hooks are ideal for freshwater fishing. You get six durable hooks made from high carbon steel, and are size 10, which is ideal for sunfish, panfish and smaller trout. 137-piece tackle box: on sale for $16.97 (15% off) Original price: $19.97 Head out on the water with everything you might need. (Amazon) Amazon $19.97 $16.97 Beginners who aren’t sure where to start can get everything they need to go on their first few fishing trips with this 137-piece tackle box. Included are seven types of lure rigs, hooks, soft baits, hard baits, spinners and more. The convenient tackle box has everything you need to catch bass, trough and a variety of other freshwater fish. Fishing lures for freshwater and saltwater: $19.99 These realistic lures help attract freshwater and saltwater fish. (Amazon) Amazon $19.99 TRUSCEND fishing lures are segmented so they move like real fish. This attracts bass and other similarly sized fish. The lures have realistic-looking eyes and a pearl powder coating for durability. There’s even a built-in rattle in each lure that emits sounds that attract fish. Nets Fishing nets help when retrieving your fish from the water, helping you avoid losing your prized catch. We’ve included nets in various sizes and weights, all still at an affordable price. Fishing net with telescoping pole: on sale for $14.99 (6% off) Original price: $15.99 A fishing net makes it easier to handle your catch. (Amazon) Amazon $15.99 $14.99 Fishing nets help you get a better handle on your fish, helping you remove the hook. The RESTCLOUD fishing net telescopes for easy storage. Ideal for fish up to five pounds, the lightweight mesh won’t damage the fish. The aluminum handle is sturdy and durable and won’t rust when it gets wet. Frabill fishing net: $7.77 Handle any sized fish with the net. (Walmart) Featuring a super-soft vinylon mesh and a 30-inch slide handle, the Frailbill fishing net can help you handle your catch. The wooden handle is comfortable to hold and durable. This net is praised for its stability and ability to handle large catches. FALL FISHING GEAR YOU NEED FOR THE COLDER WEATHER Ozark Trail floating dip net: $0.88 This small, lightweight net is a good option when you’re traveling. (Walmart) If you need a small, cheap net that gets the job done, the Ozark Trail floating dip net is a good choice. It’s compact and lightweight, so it can easily fit into most tackle boxes. The flotation handle ensures your net stays afloat if you drop it in the water. Pliers and knives After you reel in your catch, it’s time to get the hook dislodged, and if you’re dealing with a difficult fish, a good pair of pliers is a must. Plus, anyone dressing their fish for later should bring along an extra-sharp knife. KastKing 5-inch bait knife: $21.99 Cut bait and fish with this KastKing knife. (Walmart) If you plan to dress your fish for eating, a KastKing multi-use bait knife is a must. The strong blade and serrated edge make it easy to cut frozen bait, but it also works as a filet knife for cutting up the fish. The knife if thicker than other knives and won’t bend, even when deboning or cutting salmon, tuna and other tougher fish. 2-piece fishing fillet knife set: on sale for $12.99 (13% off) Original price: $14.99 These knives have scale removers, a bottle opener and an ultra-sharp blade. (Amazon) Amazon $14.99 Get two fillet knives for the price of one from Amazon. They’re made from stainless steel and are incredibly sharp. The serrated edge on the back of the blade can be used to remove fish scales, and there’s also a built-in bottle opener on the back of the blade. Also included with the knife set are two sheaths and a knife sharpener. KastKing intimidator fishing pliers: $11.99 Always bring a good pair of pliers with you when you’re fishing. (Amazon) Amazon $11.99 KastKing fishing pliers come in handy when you need to remove a hook, cut wire or prepare bait. These pliers have a stainless-steel construction and are coated with a polymer coating that helps them last. Ergonomic handles make the pliers comfortable to hold while you’re removing a fish hook. Tackle boxes and storage Fishing requires a lot of gear, so make sure you have tackle boxes and fishing pole storage. We’ve lined up some affordable but durable options. Ozark Trail tackle bag: $19.32 This tackle bag is easy to carry and provides additional storage. (Walmart) Easily carry your tackle around with this Ozark Trail tackle bag. It includes four trays and a lunch-box style carrying case with a shoulder strap. There’s also an easy-access mesh pocket on the size of the bag where you can store your belongings. Plano 2-tray tackle box: on sale for $18.95 (5% off) Original price: $19.99 A compact tackle box that’s lightweight and easy to carry. (Amazon) Amazon $19.99 $18.95 Great for beginners and kids without a lot of tackle, this Plano two-tray tackle box has separate compartments for hooks, lures and bait. The collapsible handle makes the lightweight box easy to carry. For more deals, visit www.foxnews.com/deals Canvas fishing pole bag: $19.99 Carry up to five rods and reels with this canvas fishing pole bag. (Amazon) Amazon $19.99 Carry up to five rods in this canvas fishing pole bag. The canvas material is waterproof yet lightweight. The outside can hold five rods, but the inside also gives you additional space for more rods, tackle and your personal belongings. You can even carry a small camping chair in the wide outside pocket. Christopher Murray is a commerce writer for Fox News who specializes in topics like outdoor gear, DIY projects, grills, pet products and auto must-haves. Related Topics Deals Commerce Fishing Water Sport Deals Amazon Deals Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox Arrives Weekdays Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!