Parents could face jail time under New Jersey town's ordinance targeting children's unruly behavior
New Jersey Parents could face jail time under New Jersey town's ordinance targeting children's unruly behavior The Gloucester Township law includes 28 offenses ranging from felonies to minor infractions like loitering, breaking curfew or chronic truancy By Brie Stimson Fox News Published August 8, 2025 9:38pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Expert warns parents of online criminal network entrapping minors with 'lovebombing,' fake relationships Dr. Stephen Boyce, CEO and president of the Cyber Doctor and former forensic analyst with the FBI, discussed the '764' network with Fox News Digital. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Under a new ordinance in a New Jersey town, parents can be fined and even charged for their children’s unruly behavior. The Township of Gloucester Minors and Parents Responsibility Ordinance stipulates consequences, including jail time, for parents and guardians who "fail to prevent their children from breaking the law," according to a news release from police. The ordinance was passed by the Township Council July 28 and was introduced after incidents of public disturbance involving kids at events like last year’s Gloucester Township Day and Drone Show. SOCIAL MEDIA-FUELED TEEN FLASH MOBS PROMPT CLOSURES OF BUSINESSES AND PUBLIC CENTERS NATIONWIDE The Township of Gloucester Minors and Parents Responsibility Ordinance stipulates consequences, including jail time, for parents and guardians who "fail to prevent their children from breaking the law," according to a news release from police. (Google Maps) During that event, a large brawl involving teens broke out, and 11 people were arrested, including nine teenagers, according to NJ.com. Three police officers were also injured during the melee. The event was postponed this year, the outlet reported, because social media posts suggested similar behavior was planned. The ordinance includes 28 different offenses that range from felonies to minor infractions such as loitering, breaking curfew or chronic truancy. PARENTS FACE POSSIBLE ARREST, STEEP FINES IN MILITARY TOWN'S TOUGH NEW APPROACH TO COMBAT YOUTH CRIME "If a child is repeatedly found guilty in juvenile court, their caretaker could face up to 90 days in prison and/or a fine of up to $2,000," the department said. Guardians will be issued a warning before a citation, Gloucester Township Police Chief David Harkins said, according to NewJersey.com. Guardians will be issued a warning before a citation, Gloucester Township Police Chief David Harkins said. (Gloucester Township Police Department) "Our ordinance was actually sampled from other towns," he explained. "We’re not necessarily the first, but we’re probably the first bigger town to adopt it." Fox News Digital has reached out to the Gloucester Township Police Department for comment. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Gloucester Township is about 15 miles from Philadelphia. Related Topics New Jersey Crime Police and Law Enforcement U.S. Legislation Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox Arrives Weekdays Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!