Spartacus Roars Cory Booker Still Annoying People for No Reason
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Democrats Spartacus Roars: Cory Booker Still Annoying People for No Reason The senator's latest outburst comes several months after parlaying fake filibuster into a book deal Andrew Stiles July 30, 2025 Cory Booker is at it again. The failed presidential candidate and notorious bachelor continues to annoy his colleagues with performative tantrums that accomplish nothing. On Tuesday, the Democratic senator from New Jersey objected to a series of bipartisan bills intended to provide support for local law enforcement. While ranting on the Senate floor in front of the cameras, Booker lashed out at his fellow Democrats for their "complicity with an authoritarian leader who is trashing our country." He eventually backed down, and the bills passed unanimously. "There's a lot of us in this caucus that want to fucking fight," Booker told reporters after his tantrum. "And what's bothering me right now is we don't see enough fight in this caucus." The senator's rant did not sit well with his Democratic colleagues, including Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D., Minn.), who had attempted to pass the legislative package by unanimous consent. She criticized Booker for not raising his objections at a recent hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee, where theatrical tantrums are typically encouraged. The attack on his colleagues may have achieved Booker's primary goal of getting attention, but one must seriously question the wisdom of crossing Klobuchar, who is notorious for her "dehumanizing" and occasionally violent treatment of staff. Booker, aka "Senator Spartacus," acquired the nickname in 2018 after pulling a similar stunt during Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh's confirmation hearings. "This is the closest I'll get to an 'I am Spartacus' moment," the senator decreed while (unsuccessfully) attempting to analogize his actions to a scene from Spartacus, the 1960 film starring Kirk Douglas (though it's possible he was referencing a line from That Thing You Do! starring Tom Hanks). Booker said this while threatening to release classified documents written by Kavanaugh during the Bush administration. The documents had already been declassified, so it wasn't clear what Booker was talking about. When a reporter asked him about the stunt, Booker accused the reporter of violating the Constitution. In April, the spotlight-hungry Democrat broke the record for the longest filibuster by speaking on the Senate floor for 25 hours. It wasn't technically a filibuster, though it was celebrated as one by Democrats and journalists, despite their repeated insistence that the filibuster was— in the words of Barack Obama—a "Jim Crow relic" that should be abolished. Booker wasn't attempting to block a specific piece of legislation. He was just ranting like MSNBC to "protest" the Trump administration's policies. Booker scored a book deal the following month after he was slapped with an ethics complaint for encouraging viewers to sign up for fundraising emails during his speech. Booker is hardly the only Democrat who is frequently annoying his colleagues by trying to seize the public spotlight with potty-mouthed rants about fighting. Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D., Texas) is also renowned for her toxic narcissism and sassy tantrums. The congresswoman was recently the subject of an embarrassing profile in the Atlantic, which revealed the extent to which her colleagues loathe her grandstanding. "She likes to talk," said one Democratic staffer. "Is she a loose cannon? Sometimes. Does that cause headaches for other members? 100 percent." It's unclear if Booker is eager to challenge Crockett and Kamala Harris for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2028. His profoundly unmemorable campaign in the 2020 Democratic primary ended before any votes could be cast. Published under: Amy Klobuchar , Cory Booker , Democratic Party , Filibuster , Jasmine Crockett , New Jersey , Senate Democrats Democrats TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT