Kamala Harris 2028!
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Democrats Kamala Harris 2028! Failed candidate won't run for governor of California, setting up historic presidential comeback Getty Images Andrew Stiles July 30, 2025 Kamala Harris moved one step closer to mounting a historic return to the White House on Wednesday by declining to enter next year's open-seat race for governor of California. Eugene Daniels, the esteemed MSNBC fashion aficionado and "walking Beyoncé encyclopedia" who covered her failed campaign in 2024, was among the first reporters to share the news. "In recent months, I have given serious thought to asking the people of California for the privilege to serve as their Governor. I love this state, its people, and its promise. It is my home," Harris said in a characteristically long-winded statement. "But after deep reflection, I’ve decided that I will not run for Governor in this election." The announcement comes after months of absurd media hype about how Harris was "getting serious about considering" a run for governor in California to succeed the term-limited incumbent, Gavin Newsom. She was reportedly trying to decide between doing that or running for president in 2028, so Wednesday's announcement is great news for the handful of MSNBC viewers who still think she could have beaten Donald Trump last year if only she had been given more time to introduce herself to the American people. Harris vowed to "remain in [the] fight," and said her political leadership will not be in elected office "for now," hinting at a future run for the White House. "I look forward to getting back out and listening to the American people, helping elect Democrats across the nation who will fight fearlessly, and sharing more details in the months ahead about my own plans," she said. Hunter Biden, the crackhead scion who is also rumored to be considering a presidential run in 2028, was quick to weigh in on Harris's decision. "That's interesting," he said. While many are hoping and praying that Harris will run for president again, she also apparently has a third option. The New York Times reported in April that Harris, long renowned for her wonkish mastery of complex political arguments and her ability to speak eloquently in interviews, was mulling the creation of "an institute for policy and ideas," which could also be a useful springboard to a White House bid in 2028. When she does announce, the Washington Free Beacon vows to be the first to endorse her candidacy. Published under: 2028 election , California , Democratic Party , Kamala Harris Democrats TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT