Even the Liberal Media Can't Whitewash Jasmine Crockett's Toxic Narcissism
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Democrats Even the Liberal Media Can't Whitewash Jasmine Crockett's Toxic Narcissism 'The lock screen on her phone is a headshot of herself' Getty Images for BET Andrew Stiles July 29, 2025 Jasmine Crockett, the trash-talking Democratic congresswoman from Texas, has become a genuine celebrity among the handful of troubled souls who still watch MSNBC and think Stephen Colbert is actually funny. They love her because she's loud and obnoxious, but rather than disrupting their peaceful Sunday brunch with the girls, Crockett is disrupting a Democratic establishment that is too polite and insufficiently committed to the anti-Trump resistance. She talks like a deranged MSNBC fan—minus the affected "sassy black woman" accent—venting their outrage in a "Liberal Lushes" group chat. Crockett, 44, has no real accomplishments to speak of, apart from some meaningless awards (and a diploma from an esteemed private high school in St. Louis). She was named "advocate of the year" at the 2025 Webby Awards for using her online platform to amplify her "commitment to social justice." (She went viral after calling her Republican colleague, Nancy Mace, a "child" during a civil rights hearing.) Crockett is also the star of numerous YouTube videos with "CLAPS BACK" in the title, so there's that. Whether she's denouncing Hispanic Trump voters for having a "slave mentality," or deriding the "white tears" of her critics, Crockett knows how to get attention. It was only a matter of time before the mainstream media offered to help Crockett burnish her reputation by writing a glowing profile of the potty-mouthed Democrat who fights. On Sunday, the Atlantic published an article that might have accomplished this goal. Alas, even the liberal journalist was repulsed by Crockett's toxic narcissism. As a sign of how poorly it went, the congresswoman called the Atlantic reporter, Elaine Godfrey, days before the story came out to complain that the journalist had been contacting her colleagues in the House "without telling her first," and proclaimed that she was "shutting down the profile and revoking all permissions," which isn't a thing. Getty Images for EBONY The article portrays Crockett as a self-infatuated wannabe influencer who "monitors social-media engagement like a day trader checks her portfolio." She brags about having the "largest social-media following" on the House Oversight Committee, and makes sure to notify the reporter that her YouTube rant about ICE agents being "out of control" was approaching 800,000 views. She would often tout her social media metrics while meeting with House Democrats during her failed bid to become ranking member of the Oversight Committee. "The base is thirsty," she told one freshman colleague. Out of the four candidates who wanted the job, Crockett finished last. "During many of our conversations, Crockett wore acrylic nails painted with the word RESIST, and a set of heavy lashes over her brown eyes," Godfrey writes. "The lock screen on her phone is a headshot of herself." She does not come across as someone who is particularly pleasant to work for. Godfrey notes that Crockett called her office to berate a staffer in the middle of an interview. At one point, Crockett appears to invent an origin story out of thin air, much like Kamala Harris claiming to have worked at McDonald's. She recalls working with a black female attorney after she and several other black students at Rhodes College in Memphis, a private liberal arts school, received "anonymous letters containing racist threats." This attorney, Crockett alleges, is the reason she went on to pursue a career in law. "The attorney became Crockett's 'shero,' she said, and inspired her to attend law school herself," Godfrey writes. "When I asked for the name of her shero so that I could interview her, Crockett told me that she did not remember." The reporter's subsequent efforts to track down the inspirational attorney were unsuccessful. Getty Images Not surprisingly, Crockett's glory-hounding antics have aggravated many of her fellow Democrats. Godfrey notes that 33 House Democrats she contacted for the story "either declined to talk with me on the record or didn't respond to my interview requests." A number of Democratic staffers suggested that Crockett's colleagues were reluctant to criticize her publicly, but have expressed concern privately about her lack of discipline. "She likes to talk," one of the staffers said. "Is she a loose cannon? Sometimes. Does that cause headaches for other members? 100 percent." Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D., N.Y.) was one of the Democrats who declined to comment. Crockett claims they have a "positive relationship," but it seems clear that she is jealous of AOC's fame and social media presence. For example, though she praised the nationwide "Fighting Oligarchy" tour, during which AOC and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I., Vt.) traveled the country ranting about billionaires, Crockett complained that it "kind of makes people be like, Oh, it’s about them, right? Instead of the team." Even Crockett's predecessor, former Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D., Texas), who endorsed Crockett after announcing her retirement in 2021, began to have "second thoughts about Jasmine" before her death in 2023, according to a Democratic strategist based in Texas. Johnson apparently felt that Crockett was "dismissive of her experience and advice," Godfrey writes. Beyond cursing Republicans, raising money, and racking up views on YouTube, it's not entirely clear what Crockett is trying to accomplish on behalf of her party. "For me, I always just say 'the people,'" she says when asked what Democrats should stand for, apart from hating Trump. She appears as clueless as any other Democrat as to why the party is so reviled, describing Joe Biden as a "great president" whose remarkable accomplishments were not adequately explained to voters. "No one knew what the fuck he did," Crockett says. "He's an old man that gets shit done." Naturally, the congresswoman has not ruled out a run for governor or U.S. Senate in 2026. "I do think that Texas is blue. We are just voter-suppressed," she said in a recent interview with BET. She wouldn't do it for the attention, of course, but because of her passion for public service. Polling suggests she'd be the favorite to win the nomination in either race. Beto O'Rourke, who has run and lost for both offices, has said Crockett would be a "fantastic" candidate. What does it all mean? Normal Americans should get used to hearing her name. They'll be hearing it a lot in a few years when she's the Democratic nominee... for president. Enjoy! Published under: Democratic Party , Greg Abbott , Jasmine Crockett , Texas , The Atlantic Democrats TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT