Gunman Opens Fire in Manhattan, Killing Cop and Multiple Civilians
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Crime Gunman Opens Fire in Manhattan, Killing Cop and Multiple Civilians A source familiar identified the suspect as Shane D. Tamura Photo shared with the Washington Free Beacon Jon Levine July 28, 2025 A New York Police Department officer and three civilians were shot and killed Monday evening, with another civilian alive and in critical condition, after a gunman opened fire at a Park Avenue office tower in Midtown Manhattan. The suspected gunman's name is Shane D. Tamura, a source familiar confirmed to the Washington Free Beacon. The same source told the Free Beacon that the NYPD officer killed was a Bangladeshi immigrant to the United States. The Daily Mail reported that the officer's name was Didarul Islam, who was off-duty and working as a private security guard at the time. New York mayor Eric Adams added during a press briefing that Islam was 36 years old. The 44-story building at 345 Park Ave is home to both the NFL and financial giant Blackstone, and further reporting suggests the professional football league may have been his target. A suicide note found in Tamura's pocket alleged that he suffered from CTE, a brain disease connected to head trauma and most commonly associated with the sport of football. "You can't go against the NFL, they'll squash you," the note read. The NYPD had the situation contained within about an hour of the shooting, police commissioner Jessica Tisch said in a statement posted on X. Photo of the suspect’s gun shared with the Free Beacon by a source familiar with the matter Tisch said during the press briefing that the suspect used an M4 rifle to carry out the shooting and confirmed that Tamura is the suspect, adding that he had a "documented mental health history." Reports state, though, that the gun Tamura allegedly used to carry out the attack is a Palmetto State Armory AR-15, not an M4. "The FBI is on scene at the Manhattan crime scene," FBI deputy director Dan Bongino said in an X post. The NYPD currently has the lead in this investigation. Our personnel are there to support their efforts. Motive is currently under investigation." Video taken by a local Fox affiliate showed several police officers carrying an injured man and applying chest compressions. CNN speculated that the alleged gunman was white, a claim contradicted by a photo of the suspect confirmed by the source who spoke with the Free Beacon. Police took two other individuals into custody—a woman and a man who had been screaming "Free Palestine"—according to AM New York. "This guy, he comes out of here ... he keeps saying, free Palestine," one bystander said. "He got his face covered up in the Palestine stuff." This is a developing story and will be updated. Published under: Crime , FBI , New York City , Palestine , shooting Crime TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT