Trump Says US Will Obliterate Iran's Nuclear Facilities Again If Tehran Tries Restarting Program
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Latest News Trump Says US Will Obliterate Iran's Nuclear Facilities Again If Tehran Tries Restarting Program Iranian officials have been sending 'very nasty signals,' Trump tells reporters Monday Ali Khamenei (Majid Saeedi/Getty Images), Donald Trump (Adam Gray/Getty Images) Matthew Xiao July 28, 2025 President Donald Trump warned Monday that the United States would destroy Iran's uranium enrichment sites again if Tehran tries to restart its nuclear program. "We wiped out [Iran's] nuclear possibilities," Trump told reporters during a meeting with U.K. prime minister Keir Starmer in Scotland. "They can start again. If they do, we'll wipe it out faster than you can wave your finger at it." "For a country that just got wiped out, they've been sending very bad signals, very nasty signals," Trump added. ⚡️@POTUS: "We wiped out [Iran's] nuclear possibilities. They can start again. If they do, we'll wipe it out faster than you can wave your finger at it. We'll have to do that. We will do that gladly. Openly and gladly."pic.twitter.com/kr640Tyc0j — Israel War Room (@IsraelWarRoom) July 28, 2025 The United States last month destroyed Iran's underground nuclear facilities using heavy-duty "bunker-buster" bombs, according to reports. Israel's Atomic Energy Commission assessed Iran's Fordow nuclear site as "inoperable" and said the U.S. strike "set back Iran's ability to develop nuclear weapons by many years." A CIA report supported that view, with Director John Ratcliffe saying Iran's nuclear program is "severely damaged." Iran, which denies seeking to develop a nuclear weapon, has insisted it will not give up uranium enrichment, Iranian foreign minister Abbas Araghchi said in a recent Fox News interview. Araghchi also downplayed Iranian chants of "Death to America" and denied any government-linked plots to assassinate Trump. The U.S. government has charged a reputed "Iranian asset" with planning to kill Trump on the behalf of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. The case made its way into federal court last month, the Washington Free Beacon reported. Trump last month said he "dropped all work on sanction relief" for Iran after Iranian supreme leader Ali Khamenei condemned the United States and falsely claimed victory over Israel. Trump imposed sanctions targeting Iran's military networks, oil exports, and shipping industry throughout both of his terms, as part of his "maximum pressure" campaign aimed at dismantling the Islamic Republic's nuclear program. "Iran has to get back into the World Order flow, or things will only get worse for them," Trump warned on Truth Social. Published under: Donald Trump , Iran , Nuclear Iran , Nuclear Weapons Latest News TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT