Sharon Stone admits her most lucrative gig isn't acting after losing $18M post-health scare
Entertainment Sharon Stone admits her most lucrative gig isn't acting after losing $18M post-health scare The Hollywood icon previously revealed that she only made $500,000 on her breakout film 'Basic Instinct' By Brie Stimson Fox News Published August 8, 2025 10:33am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Sharon Stone’s philosophy to stay positive after near-fatal brain bleed, financial struggles While walking the carpet at the Golden Globe Awards, Sharon Stone told Fox News Digital "you get to choose how you view the world." NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Despite her status as a Hollywood icon, Sharon Stone says modeling still brings in more money than her film roles. "I'm still modeling, and I still make more money today modeling than in film," the 67-year-old told Business Insider in a recent interview. "It's still a huge part of my reality." She added, "I'm still one of the oldest women consistently modeling today. I'm very, very grateful I still get to do it." SHARON STONE TOOK JOAN COLLINS' ADVICE TO AVOID DOING 2 THINGS AFTER 40 Despite her status as a Hollywood icon, Sharon Stone says modeling still brings in more money than her film roles. (Gilbert Flores/Variety via Getty Images) Stone began her career as a successful model before branching out into acting. She's appeared in a number of memorable films, including "Basic Instinct" and Casino," but she told The Hollywood Reporter last year that after she suffered a stroke in 2001, she was taken advantage of financially. LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS "I had $18 million saved because of all my success, but when I got back into my bank account, it was all gone," she revealed. "My refrigerator, my phone — everything was in other people’s names." At that point, she said, "I had zero money." Stone explained that she got through that time by deciding "not to hang onto being sick or to any bitterness or anger. If you bite into the seed of bitterness, it never leaves you. But if you hold faith, even if that faith is the size of a mustard seed, you will survive. So, I live for joy now. I live for purpose." Sharon Stone posing for a photo in 1985. (Photo12/Universal Images Group via Getty Images) Stone was a relative unknown when she hit superstardom with "Basic Instinct" in 1992, and she's said that she made relatively little from the film. "I'm still one of the oldest women consistently modeling today. I'm very, very grateful I still get to do it." — Sharon Stone "I put in my contract that I could keep the clothes," she told InStyle in 2022. "People thought I was crazy, but the truth is I wasn’t getting paid much compared to my male co-star. I made $500,000; Michael (Douglas) made $14 million. So keeping my costumes was a really smart thing to do." Sharon Stone at a Christian Dior press conference after she was named the new face of the Christian Dior skincare line "Capture Totale" in 2005. (Stephane Cardinale/Corbis via Getty Images) Stone has also complained that it’s "very expensive to be famous." SHARON STONE, 66, RECREATES ‘BASIC INSTINCT’ SCENE IN RACY LINGERIE AND HEELS "You go out to dinner, and there’s 15 people at the table, and who gets the check? You get the $3,000 dinner check every single time," she told InStyle at the time. Sharon Stone in a promo shot for "Total Recall" in 1990. (Eric Robert/Sygma/Sygma via Getty Images) Even after "Basic Instinct" premiered in 1992, Stone was living on a public-access street and didn't have any security. She said in 1994, following the infamous O.J. Simpson chase, she was visited by officers who told her she could be in danger. Police were unsure of the situation and were taking extra precautions. CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER They ultimately encouraged Stone to find a safer community. "[The police] were like, ‘Find a secure house behind a gate.’" The home she bought, additional security she hired and the management team she employed all amounted to a hefty sum. Sharon Stone in a scene from "Casino." (Universal Pictures/Sunset Boulevard/Corbis via Getty Images) Stone also told InStyle that eventually, she'd likely have to downsize. "Will I make enough money to stay living where I’m living? Probably not. But the kids will leave home and go to college, and I’ll sell my big, fancy house, and I’ll go live like a normal person. I will continue to make a life." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Related Topics Entertainment Movies Celebrity News Trending Entertainment Sydney Sweeney confesses she wasn’t prepared for the emotional toll of fame amid political controversies Tom Hanks Tom Hanks salutes Jim Lovell after Apollo 13 commander dies at 97 Christie Brinkley Christie Brinkley admits forever might be too long for modern marriage Exclusive Interviews 'Baywatch' star Donna D’Errico says Playboy rejected her 30 years after provocative cover Celebrity Marriages Victoria and David Beckham keep spark alive after 26 years as family rift lingers Kate Hudson Kate Hudson rocks bikini on adventure getaway with family in Colorado Fox News Entertainment Get a daily look at the top news in music, movies, television and more in the entertainment industry. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!