DNC Tweets, Then Deletes, Chart Showing Soaring Grocery Prices Under Biden
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Latest News DNC Tweets, Then Deletes, Chart Showing Soaring Grocery Prices Under Biden The post, intended to attack Trump, has drawn mockery across social media Donald Trump (Win McNamee/Getty Images) Matthew Xiao July 25, 2025 The Democratic National Committee on Thursday posted a chart blaming President Donald Trump for high grocery prices—a chart that actually showed prices soaring during Joe Biden's presidency and plateauing under Trump. The committee soon deleted the post following widespread mockery on social media. The chart, titled "U.S. Grocery Prices Reached Record Highs in 2025," claimed that prices are "higher today than they were [in] July 2024." "Trump's America," the DNC's official X account wrote alongside the graph. (X via archive.today) The DNC failed to realize, however, that the chart showed grocery prices skyrocketing beginning in 2021—shortly after Biden took office—and leveling off in late 2024—following Trump's reelection. (@nicksortor X) The DNC deleted the post hours later after a wave of social media users mocked the blunder. Popular X personality @greg16676935420, for example, wrote that "this might be the biggest self-own I've ever seen on this website." "The Democrats just DELETED their post which showed Joe Biden's regime MASSIVELY increased grocery prices across the board," another prominent X user, @nicksortor, wrote. "This was a TOTAL self-own." Under the Biden administration, inflation soared to its highest level since the early 1980s, peaking at 9.1 percent in June 2022, according to the New York Post. By the time Biden left office, food prices had climbed more than 22 percent. Since Trump returned to office in January, food costs have risen by only 0.6 percent. Published under: Biden Administration , Democratic Party , DNC , Donald Trump , Inflation , Twitter Latest News TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT