CNN Backs Grieving Families' Call for Mass Rape of Idaho Killer Bryan Kohberger (And So Do We)
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Media CNN Backs Grieving Families' Call for Mass Rape of Idaho Killer Bryan Kohberger (And So Do We) 'I'm confident that the men in prison will have their way with you in more ways than one' Andrew Stiles July 24, 2025 CNN host Jim Sciutto on Wednesday appeared to endorse a grieving relative's call for convicted murderer Bryan Kohberger to be raped in prison. The Washington Free Beacon could not agree more. Most mainstream commentators have, in recent years, been too woke to voice support for the ritualistic rape of disgusting freaks who murder our upstanding young men and women. We're glad to see the vibe has shifted back toward common sense. Family members of the four University of Idaho students fatally stabbed in 2022 spoke in court Wednesday before Kohberger was sentenced to four consecutive life terms after pleading guilty earlier this month to avoid the death penalty. They did not hold back. "You are gonna suffer, man," one said. Another grieving relative explained that while she was disappointed Kohberger wouldn't be getting a lethal injection, she took comfort in the thought that his fellow inmate would ensure he would receive a steady dose of involuntary non-lethal injections, so to speak. "I'm confident that the men in prison will have their way with you in more ways than one," she told Kohberger in court. "You will finally get what you wanted: physical touch." CNN reporter Veronica Miracle noted the "really, really, really, heavy emotion" in the courtroom. Sciutto chimed in to say the family members had a valid argument. "Listen, some real, real anger there," he said. "One of the family members saying, in effect, hope that he's attacked in prison, right? I mean, in their position, one can certainly understand the emotion and the anger." Indeed. This is probably the most relatable opinion a CNN host has expressed on air since 2015. Published under: CNN , Idaho , Murder , Prison , Rape Media TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT