Biden-nominated judge slaps nationwide injunction on Trump birthright citizenship order
Executive Policy Biden-nominated judge slaps nationwide injunction on Trump birthright citizenship order Judge Deborah Boardman rules executive order contradicts Fourteenth Amendment and Supreme Court precedent By Greg Norman , Breanne Deppisch Fox News Published August 8, 2025 10:03am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video SCOTUS limits nationwide injunctions with 'extremely significant' birthright decision Constitutional Accountability Center President Elizabeth Wydra and constitutional attorney Mark Smith weigh in on how the Supreme Court limiting nationwide injunctions on federal judges will impact the birthright citizenship ruling. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! A Biden-appointed federal judge issued a nationwide injunction on President Donald Trump’s birthright citizenship order, arguing that the directive is likely to be found in violation of the Constitution. U.S. District Judge Deborah L. Boardman issued her opinion Thursday after agreeing to certify a class-action lawsuit from immigration rights group CASA. "The Court finds that the plaintiffs have shown they are entitled to a classwide preliminary injunction. The plaintiffs have established that they are likely to succeed on the merits of their constitutional claim because the Executive Order contradicts the plain language of the Fourteenth Amendment and conflicts with binding Supreme Court precedent," Boardman wrote in her ruling. "The plaintiffs also have shown that the class representatives and members will suffer irreparable harm — the denial of citizenship — without injunctive relief. Finally, the plaintiffs have established that the balance of the equities and the public interest weigh in favor of a preliminary injunction," she added. "The government will not be harmed by an injunction that maintains the status quo of birthright citizenship, and the plaintiffs will be harmed if the Executive Order is not enjoined pending the outcome of this lawsuit." TRUMP'S EXECUTIVE ORDER ON BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP BLOCKED BY ANOTHER FEDERAL APPEALS JUDGE President Donald Trump displays a signed executive order during a ceremony in the South Court Auditorium at the White House in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, Aug. 5, 2025. (Kent Nishimura/Bloomberg via Getty Images) Boardman is now the fourth judge to issue a block on the executive order since a ruling from the Supreme Court in June, according to The Washington Post. READ THE FILING BELOW. APP USERS CLICK HERE: Trump's order, signed on the first day of his second White House term, directed all U.S. government agencies to refuse to issue citizenship documents to children born to illegal immigrants, or who do not have at least one parent who is an American citizen of lawful permanent resident. FEDERAL APPEALS COURT RULES AGAINST TRUMP'S BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP EXECUTIVE ORDER People hold a banner as they participate in a protest outside the Supreme Court over President Donald Trump's move to end birthright citizenship as the court heard arguments over the order in Washington, D.C., on May 15, 2025. (Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images) It was almost immediately blocked by lower courts, before eventually making its way to the Supreme Court, which reviewed the case in May. The high court's 6-3 ruling narrowly focused on the authority of lower courts' ability to issue nationwide injunctions and did not wade into the legality of Trump's executive order, which served as the legal pretext for the case. Olga Urbina and her 9-month-old son Ares Webster participate in a protest outside the Supreme Court over President Donald Trump's move to end birthright citizenship on May 15, 2025. (Drew Angerer/AFP via Getty Images) CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In the ruling, the justices said plaintiffs seeking nationwide relief must file their cases as a class-action lawsuit — prompting a flurry of action from the ACLU, CASA and other immigrant advocacy groups who amended their filings. Greg Norman is a reporter at Fox News Digital. Related Topics Executive Policy Donald Trump Immigration Federal Courts Supreme Court Politics Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox Arrives Weekdays Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!