Biden Admin's $7.5 Billion EV Initiative Built Fewer Than 400 Charging Ports in 3 Years, Watchdog Says
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Latest News Biden Admin's $7.5 Billion EV Initiative Built Fewer Than 400 Charging Ports in 3 Years, Watchdog Says Government Accountability Office slams the program's lack of 'performance goals with measurable targets and time frames for its activities' Pete Buttigieg, charging station (Drew Angerer/Getty Images) Matthew Xiao July 23, 2025 The Biden administration's $7.5 billion program to install electric-vehicle charging stations across the United States has delivered fewer than 400 charging ports since November 2021, according to a Tuesday report by the Government Accountability Office. The EV charging initiative, part of former president Joe Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, has built just 384 charging ports at 68 stations in 16 states as of April 2025, Reuters reported after reviewing the GAO's report. The figure amounts to less than 0.2 percent of the roughly 219,000 public EV charging ports operating nationwide. "Wider adoption of [electric] vehicles may be slowed because there aren't enough chargers available across the country," the GAO wrote in its summary of the report, noting that the program's oversight office "has not defined performance goals with measurable targets and time frames for its activities." Under Biden and former transportation secretary Pete Buttigieg, the Department of Transportation intended the program to build half a million charging stations by 2030. The initiative was widely criticized, including by some Democrats. As of last year, only seven charging stations were operating, a situation that Sen. Jeff Merkley (D., Ore.) called "pathetic." "We're now three years into this. … That is a vast administrative failure," Merkley said last June. "Something is terribly wrong and it needs to be fixed." Since retaking office, President Donald Trump has signed executive orders reversing the Biden administration's electric-vehicle policies, including the charging station initiative, prompting a lawsuit from mostly Democratic-leaning states. A federal judge in June ordered that the Trump administration restore electric-vehicle funding to most of the states that sued. Published under: Biden Administration , Department of Energy , Department of Transportation , Electric Cars , Energy Department , EVs , Jeff Merkley , Pete Buttigieg Latest News TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT