Wife of Slain October 7 Mastermind Yahya Sinwar Fled Gaza for Turkey Report
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Latest News Wife of Slain October 7 Mastermind Yahya Sinwar Fled Gaza for Turkey: Report Sinwar's brother's wife also fled Gaza, according to Ynet Samar Abu Zamer (IDF Spokesperson's Unit via Ynet) Matthew Xiao July 23, 2025 The wife of slain October 7 mastermind Yahya Sinwar fled Gaza before her husband was killed and has now gotten remarried in Turkey, according to a report. Sinwar's wife, Samr Abu Zamer, "crossed through the Rafah border using a fake passport" while Sinwar, a longtime leader of Hamas who orchestrated the terror group's Oct. 7, 2023, attack on Israel, was still alive. Abu Zamer got remarried in Turkey, where she is living, a few months after Israeli forces eliminated Sinwar, Israeli outlet Ynet reported Wednesday. Sinwar planned Hamas's bloodthirsty Oct. 7, 2023, terror attack that killed more than 1,200 Israelis and saw 251 people, including Americans, taken hostage. Abu Zamer's border crossing involved "high-level coordination, logistical support, and large sums of money that regular Gazans don't have," while her remarriage was arranged by senior Hamas political bureau member Fathi Hammad, according to Ynet's source. The wife of Yahya Sinwar's brother, Muhammad Sinwar, also left Gaza before her husband was killed, possibly for Turkey as well, Ynet reported based on local sources. Israel in a May airstrike eliminated Muhammad Sinwar, who served as the de facto leader of Hamas following his brother's death. The news that the Sinwar wives have fled Gaza comes as the Trump administration and Israel face left-wing criticism over proposals to relocate Palestinians away from Gaza. "While much of the world condemns plans for Gazans to voluntary emigrate, Yahya Sinwar's wife has already done so—and even remarried," Israeli journalist Amit Segal wrote on X. "The Sinwar wives, it seems, have adopted a new motto: Emigration for me, not for thee." The wives are not alone. Since the early days of the war, Hamas officials have been smuggling their family members out of Gaza through forged documents and foreign assistance while ordinary Gazans suffer under Hamas's rule, according to Ynet. "They send their children to study in Turkey and Qatar—and send ours to the grave," a young Gaza resident told Ynet. "What makes them different from any corrupt ruler in the Arab world? They only look after themselves." Abu Zamer drew backlash last year when footage showed her carrying a luxury handbag as she hid in a tunnel, Ynet reported. Published under: Gaza , Gaza Strip , Hamas , Israel , October 7 , Turkey , war , Yahya Sinwar Latest News TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT