'Go F— Yourself' Jon Stewart Blasts CBS for Canceling Stephen Colbert's 'Late Show'
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Latest News 'Go F— Yourself': Jon Stewart Blasts CBS for Canceling Stephen Colbert's 'Late Show' Colbert delivered his own 'go f— yourself' to President Donald Trump (The Daily Show screenshot) Matthew Xiao July 22, 2025 Liberal comedian Jon Stewart in a Monday evening on-air outburst lashed out at CBS News and its parent company Paramount for canceling The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, repeatedly telling the network to "go fuck yourself." Stewart, a longtime Trump critic and part-time host of Comedy Central's The Daily Show, during Monday's episode led a gospel-style choir in singing, "Go fuck yourself," to CBS. The outburst followed his monologue tearing into Paramount, the parent company of CBS and Comedy Central, for agreeing to settle Trump's multimillion-dollar lawsuit. https://freebeacon.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Ssw2RyZ0q0jls2uU.mp4 Minutes later, Colbert delivered his own "go fuck yourself" to President Donald Trump, who had mocked him and other liberal late-night hosts in a Friday Truth Social post. "I absolutely love that Colbert got fired," Trump wrote. "His talent was even less than his ratings. I hear Jimmy Kimmel is next. Has even less talent than Colbert! Greg Gutfeld is better than all of them combined, including the Moron on NBC who ruined the once great Tonight Show." Stephen Colbert responds to Donald Trump saying he’s happy ‘The Late Show’ will be canceled: "Go f*** yourself" pic.twitter.com/2HB56Ns8Xy — Pop Crave (@PopCrave) July 22, 2025 Stewart has a long history of anti-Trump rhetoric, dating back to Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. He has called Trump a "thin-skinned" "man-baby" and lambasted most of Trump's policies, particularly on illegal immigration and DEI, and once pledged to leave Earth in a rocket ship should Trump move into the White House. Colbert, who took over the Late Show from David Letterman in 2015, also leans into anti-Trump rhetoric and progressive politics. Last week, he slammed CBS's planned million-dollar payout as a "big fat bribe," suggesting that the network wants to curry favor with the Trump administration to secure approval of Paramount's pending merger with Skydance Media. CBS insisted in Thursday's announcement that canceling Colbert's show is "purely a financial decision against a challenging backdrop in late night" and "not related in any way to the show's performance, content or other matters happening at Paramount." The Late Show has been losing $40 million per year, a source told Reuters. Published under: CBS News , Daily Show , Donald Trump , Jon Stewart , Stephen Colbert Latest News TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT