Hunter Biden Says He'd 'Invade' US Ally El Salvador To Bring Back Illegal Immigrants If He Became President
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Latest News Hunter Biden Says He'd 'Invade' US Ally El Salvador To Bring Back Illegal Immigrants If He Became President Former first son, a top adviser to dad Joe, also slams prominent Democrats in profanity-laced rant Hunter Biden (Tom Brenner/Getty Images) Matthew Xiao July 21, 2025 In an expletive-filled rant, Hunter Biden said he would invade El Salvador to bring illegal immigrants back to the United States if he were president. "If I became president in two years from now, or four years from now, or three years from now, I would pick up the phone and call the fucking president of El Salvador and say, you either fucking send [illegal immigrants] back or I'm going to fucking invade," Biden said during an interview with YouTube personality Andrew Callaghan that was released Monday. Hunter Biden in the interview also blasted the Democratic Party, criticizing members who warn about illegal immigration and taking aim at prominent party figures. "All these Democrats say, 'You have to talk about and realize that people are really upset about illegal immigration,'" Biden said. "Fuck you. How do you think your hotel room gets cleaned? How do you think you have food on your fucking table? Who do you think washes your dishes? Who do you think does your fucking garden?" Biden dismissed longtime Democratic strategist James Carville, saying he "hasn't won a race in 40 fucking years," and slammed former Barack Obama adviser David Axelrod, calling him a one-hit wonder who owes all his success to Obama. Biden also mocked the former Obama advisers who host the podcast Pod Save America as "junior fucking speechwriters … on Barack Obama's Senate staff" who cashed in millions on their ties to the former president, and he brushed off CNN anchor Jake Tapper, saying, "What influence does Jake Tapper have over anything? He has the smallest audience on cable news." Pod Save America cohost Tommy Vietor, who served as a special assistant to Obama, mocked Biden in response and lambasted the Biden family, writing in an X post, "It's good to see that Hunter has taken some time to process the election, look inward, and hold himself accountable for how his family's insular, dare I say arrogant at times, approach to politics led to this catastrophic outcome we're all now living with." It's good to see that Hunter has taken some time to process the election, look inward, and hold himself accountable for how his family's insular, dare I say arrogant at times, approach to politics led to this catastrophic outcome we're all now living with. https://t.co/yTSArRnVzb — Tommy Vietor (@TVietor08) July 21, 2025 Biden denied widespread reports from Tapper and others that he "basically acted as chief of staff" for his family during his father's presidency, saying, "I think I spent 12 days in the White House in the last 2 years of the administration. I had a lot of other things going on." Joe Biden has "long leaned on" Hunter Biden for advice, the New York Times reported in June 2024, as then-president Biden was considering whether to drop out of the presidential race following a disastrous debate against Donald Trump. Another Hunter Biden target was Democratic donor George Clooney, who last year became one of the first prominent Democrats to publicly call on Joe Biden to drop out. "George Clooney is not a fucking actor," Hunter Biden said. "He's a brand." The former first son's rant comes as the Trump administration cracks down on illegal immigration, with migrant encounters as of February plummeting to the lowest level since 2017. Federal officials have more than doubled the average number of daily arrests—from 660 during the president's first 100 days to 1,200 in June, CBS News reported last month. The White House said it aims to reach 3,000 arrests per day. El Salvador, a U.S. ally, has cooperated with the Trump administration in accepting and detaining gang members deported from the United States. Biden, who has a long history of alcohol and drug addictions, has been no stranger to controversy over the years. The former first son was convicted of three felonies involving a gun purchase and later pleaded guilty to felony and misdemeanor charges for failing to pay more than $1.4 million in federal taxes from 2016 to 2019. Former president Joe Biden pardoned his son in December 2024, just weeks before leaving office. Published under: Democratic Party , Democrats , El Salvador , Hunter Biden , Illegal Immigration , Joe Biden Latest News TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT