RIP Stephen Colbert, the Bravest Man on Television. Which Overpaid Celeb Is Next To Fall in Trump's Authoritarian Purge
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Media RIP Stephen Colbert, the Bravest Man on Television. Which Overpaid Celeb Is Next To Fall in Trump's Authoritarian Purge? There's no shortage of options Andrew Stiles July 20, 2025 CBS announced last week it was canceling the Late Show with Stephen Colbert, the former comedian whose self-righteous rants and anti-Trump therapy sessions endeared him to annoying online libs who think comedy shouldn't be funny and rich celebs have a moral duty to "speak truth to power" (but only when a Republican has power). Critics have accused Donald Trump of forcing CBS to cancel Colbert's show (in May 2026) in exchange for approving the merger between Paramount, the network's parent company, and Skydance Media. CBS insists it was "purely a financial decision against a challenging backdrop in late night" that was unrelated to the show's performance and "other matters," meaning the merger. Brian Stelter and other outraged journalists can't find anyone from CBS who will come out and say Trump is to blame, so they keep noting the "huge doubts" being expressed by "observers" who think the storied media company is lying. Of course, Stelter and his fellow hacks were far less skeptical when parroting the absurd spin coming out of the Biden administration about "cheap fake" videos and other nonsense. Many "observers" could see it was all bullshit (which it was), but Stelter did not feel compelled to acknowledge these "doubts." Notwithstanding the denials from CBS, liberal commentators are convinced that Trump is solely responsible for silencing Colbert, which means America is teetering on the brink of total fascism. This is exactly how an authoritarian leader would act under these circumstances, they argue. These people are all very intelligent, so they must have a point. Imagine a celebrity TV host in fascist Russia who spent the better part of a decade spouting lame monologues about why Vladimir Putin—more like Vladimir Poopin'— was an existential threat to civilization. At some point, he would probably be told that, starting next year, he can no longer earn $20 million to make a show that loses $40 million. Russian journalists would rally to the fearless jokester's defense, freely and repeatedly denouncing the strongman for silencing his critics and destroying the country. Maybe, or maybe not. Some might contend that Colbert getting canceled is actually not a sign of impending fascism. Losing $40 million a year is almost as bad as the WNBA. Most of Colbert's viewers—the average age is 68—will be dead soon anyway. Nobody born after 1970 watches cable television, and most people still think comedians should at least try to be funny sometimes. The democracy doomsayers lamenting Colbert's demise are the same people who spent the last four years propping up a paranoid, vindictive madman whose lackeys threatened to ruin anyone who crossed them, which is far more reflective of how things actually work in authoritarian regimes. It goes without saying that the brave anti-Trump observers defending Colbert are correct. The decision to end the Late Show is the worst thing that has ever happened in America. Getting paid tens of millions of dollars to go on TV and provide therapy sessions for white senior citizens with graduate degrees is a human right. People who criticize sitting (Republican) presidents should never be taken off the air for any reason. This is an unconscionable betrayal of the Founding Fathers, a tactical nuclear strike on the pillars of democracy. The only thing to do now is wonder which exorbitantly compensated celebrity will be the next victim of Trump's authoritarian purge. Jon Stewart: He is Colbert's old buddy from the Daily Show, where they pioneered the art of eliciting "clapter" from smarmy libs, and would occasionally travel to small towns to EVISCERATE some hapless local Republican for not attending an Ivy League school. Stewart still works part time at Comedy Central, which is also owned by Paramount. He's doesn't cry as much as Colbert, but he's just as prone to preachy rants. George Cheeks: Few media executives have championed DEI as aggressively as Cheeks, the co-CEO of CBS News. His historic accomplishments including producing the first ever season of Survivor to include more than five black participants, as well as overseeing the 2021 season of Big Brother when, according to Entertainment Weekly, "six Black players formed the Cookout alliance—making it to the end together and crowning BB's first Black winner." Paramount has already started to roll back many of Cheeks's DEI initiatives to comply with the Trump administration's (correct) interpretation of anti-discrimination law. Gayle King: Oprah's best friend earns an estimated $10 million per year to do "journalism" at CBS News. She is best known for frolicking on yachts with Barack Obama, and recently went to space with Katy Perry. She donated to Kamala Harris's attorney general campaign in 2010, and said during the 2024 campaign that Harris was "so uniquely qualified to be president," a statement that does not reflect reality. King has also described failed politician Stacey Abrams as "extremely qualified," raising questions about her commitment to reporting the truth. Margaret Brennan: The CBS News veteran is constantly antagonizing Republicans with stupid questions. During an interview with Secretary of State Marco Rubio earlier this year, Brennan suggested "free speech" was to blame for the Holocaust. Many observers denounced the "toxic girl boss energy" she exuded while moderating the VP debate between J.D. Vance and Tim Walz. At one point, she claimed Vance had accused Kamala Harris of "using kids as drug mules," something he clearly did not say. The moment was intensely triggering for American men in heterosexual relationships. Jimmy Kimmel: Trump has already predicted that ABC's late night host will soon perish from the airwaves. "I hear Jimmy Kimmel is next," Trump wrote. "Has even less talent than Colbert!" The two are equally matched, however, when it comes to shrieking self-righteously about politics. Kimmel has raised millions of dollars for Democrats, and moderated the now infamous Hollywood fundraiser where Joe Biden didn't recognize George Clooney and had to be guided off stage by Barack Obama. Jimmy Fallon: After trashing Kimmel, Trump took aim at "the Moron on NBC who ruined the once great Tonight Show," referring to Fallon, who might actually be the funniest and least political host in late night, but that's sort of like being the being the classiest stripper at an orgy with Hunter Biden. Taylor Swift: Has anyone noticed that, since Trump said "I HATE TAYLOR SWIFT," she's no longer "HOT"? We certainly have. She can't really be fired for being lame, but that's why we have federal prisons. Brian Stelter: He already took a huge pay cut to return to CNN in 2024, but that hasn't made him any less annoying. Stelter has been one of the most frantic "observers" expressing "huge doubts" about the Colbert situation and warning about the imminent demise of democracy or whatever. He remains, as always, an obsequious liberal simp and breathtakingly credulous purveyor of Democratic talking points. The WNBA: If losing $40 million a year is bad enough to get Colbert canned, there's no good reason why Trump shouldn't use his authoritarian power to force the NBA to stop subsidizing this nonsense. Published under: CBS , Donald Trump , Jimmy Kimmel , Paramount , Stephen Colbert , Vladimir Putin Media TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT