Meet the Liberal Hack From CBS Who Just Became President of the White House Correspondents' Association
TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 Media Meet the Liberal Hack From CBS Who Just Became President of the White House Correspondents' Association Weijia Jiang falsely accused Robert Hur of lying about Joe Biden, and praised Kamala Harris for embodying the 'feralness of women using their voices' (whatever that means) (Weijia Jang/X) Andrew Stiles July 16, 2025 CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang became president of the White House Correspondents' Association on Wednesday, succeeding MSNBC anchor Eugene Daniels, the Kamala Harris superfan and Beyoncé aficionado known for his courageous fashion choices. Jiang's ascension suggests the controversial media organization has not wavered in its commitment to promoting liberal hacks who view journalism as a form of political activism. Jiang rose to semi-prominence during the first Trump administration by instigating public clashes with the president. She became a minor celebrity during the COVID-19 pandemic, when she accused an unnamed White House official of using the phrase "Kung-Flu" during a private conversation. She became a global sensation in May 2020 when Trump lashed out at her during a White House press conference, prompting journalists to rally to Jiang's defense and denounce Trump as a racist misogynist. Trump bristled at Jiang's question about why he kept highlighting the fact that the United States was leading the world in COVID-19 testing when "every day Americans are still losing their lives." The president responded that people are dying around the world. "Maybe that's a question you should ask China," he said. "Don't ask me, ask China that question, OK? When you ask them that question, you may get a very unusual answer." Jiang, who was born in China and immigrated to the United States as a child, fumed with rage. "Sir, why are you saying that to me specifically, that I should ask China?" she huffed. This was around the time that mainstream journalists were condemning Trump and other Republicans for promoting the "racist" and "debunked" conspiracy theory that the COVID-19 virus leaked from a Chinese lab (which most experts now agree is the most plausible explanation). Less than six months after sparring with Trump at the press conference, Jiang announced a book deal with Simon & Schuster for a memoir, titled Other, about her lived experience as a Chinese immigrant growing up in West Virginia, and the adversity she's faced following her marriage to a white man. The book was supposed to come out in 2022, but has yet to be published. Jiang's husband, Luther Lowe. (Instagram) Jiang has routinely demonstrated an eagerness to "report" the "news" in a way that advances Democratic talking points. In March 2024, she falsely accused special counsel Robert Hur of lying about Joe Biden's inability to remember when his son Beau died while being interviewed as part of the investigation into the president's mishandling of classified documents. Jiang went on to cite Biden's angry response to Hur's report. "He thought the question [about Beau's death] wasn’t any of their damn business," she said. Jiang neglected to mention that Biden's claim that Hur had specifically asked about the date of Beau's death was a blatant lie. Biden brought it up himself during the interview while rambling incoherently in response to an unrelated question. Much of Jiang's coverage of the 2024 campaign after Biden dropped out was indistinguishable from Democratic propaganda. She praised the "vibe" of Kamala Harris's campaign for celebrating the "feralness of women using their voices and of being unapologetically yourself." She lauded Harris's running mate, Gov. Tim Walz (D., Minn.), during the Democratic convention. "He has a way of attacking, but doing it, still, you know, coming across as joyful and jolly," Jiang gushed about the prancing weirdo. "I was watching Governor Walz as he was preparing right here, just feet away, and he’s just like us! He was in the zone. He was taking so many deep breaths." Under Jiang's leadership, the WHCA will presumably continue to throw a largely futile tantrum in response to the Trump administration's efforts to crack down on egregious liberal bias in the White House press corps. She seems well-suited to succeed Daniels in terms of her desire to please Democrats, but her fashion sense is sorely lacking. Whereas Daniels was routinely commended for wearing exotic gender-defying clothing and striking "fierce" poses, Jiang was called out for being one of the "worst dressed" celebs at the 2024 White House Correspondents Dinner. "The pale pink color, rosette detail at the bust, and sparkly trim made Weijia Jiang's column dress read a bit too young," wrote Treva Bowdoin, a culture expert at Nicki Swift. "Worse yet, the senior White House correspondent for CBS News was coming precariously close to committing one of the worst fashion felonies: dressing like Donald Trump Jr.'s sartorially challenged ex-fiancée. When Kimberly Guilfoyle got all gussied up for her son's prom pictures, she also opted for sparkles, a pastel hue, and cutesy embellishments. And it probably goes without saying that 'mom desperate for a prom invite she's never getting' is not a good look." Ouch. Published under: CBS News , China , Donald Trump , Eugene Daniels , Joe Biden , Media Bias Media TOP HITS Democrats Dem AGs Hired This Law Firm To Sue Oil Companies. Then The Firm Spent $49,000 To Elect Dem AGs. Thomas Catenacci August 8, 2025 Campus Harvard Hails Two-Time Loser Stacey Abrams as 'Political Mastermind' Jessica Schwalb August 8, 2025 Israel Israel To Conquer Gaza City, But Endgame Still in Doubt Andrew Tobin August 8, 2025 Media Resistance Training: This Radical Left-Wing Journalist Is Buffing Up To Smash the Patriarchy Andrew Stiles August 8, 2025 ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT