Chicago Sky game becomes latest WNBA contest disrupted by sex toy being thrown on court as arrests continue
WNBA Chicago Sky game becomes latest WNBA contest disrupted by sex toy being thrown on court as arrests continue Objects have been thrown in at least 6 WNBA games over the last week and a half By Paulina Dedaj Fox News Published August 8, 2025 9:15am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Fox News Flash top sports headlines for August 7 Fox News Flash top sports headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on Foxnews.com. NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Another WNBA game was disrupted this week when a familiar and lewd object was thrown onto the court in the final seconds of a Chicago Sky game on Thursday night. The incident comes after at least two arrests were made in connection with the series of disruptions. Social media videos showed a sex toy – this time purple in color – launched onto the court in the final moments of the fourth quarter with the Atlanta Dream leading the Sky, 86-65. Atlanta Dream guard Allisha Gray, #15, drives to the basket against Chicago Sky guard Rebecca Allen, #9, during the second half at Wintrust Arena on Aug. 7, 2025. (Kamil Krzaczynski/ Imagn Images) Another sex toy was reportedly thrown in the third quarter, but the object did not make it to the court and instead landed somewhere near the Dream bench. CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM A suspect was detained and questioned by security at Wintrust Arena but was later released, the Chicago Tribune reported, citing a league source. Sex toys have been thrown in at least six WNBA games over the last week and a half. The first happened during a game in Atlanta on July 29. It happened for the first time in Chicago on Aug. 1, Los Angeles on Tuesday – nearly hitting Indiana Fever guard Sophie Cunningham, and again in Chicago on Thursday. Sex toys were also reportedly thrown at games in New York and Phoenix on Tuesday but did not appear to reach the court. An 18-year-old man was arrested and charged following the incident in Phoenix. Indiana Fever guard Sophie Cunningham, #8, leaves the court after the game against the LA Sparks at the Crypto.com Arena on Aug. 5, 2025. (Kirby Lee/ Imagn Images) ARKS HEAD COACH FUMES AFTER ANOTHER SEX TOY IS THROWN ON WNBA COURT IN GAME AGAINST FEVER: ‘IT’S STUPID’ He reportedly told police that he pulled the prank because it had been trending on social media. He was arrested on suspicion of assault, disorderly conduct and publicly displaying explicit sexual material. There is also an ongoing investigation surrounding the alleged incident in New York, the Liberty confirmed to The Associated Press. A man in Georgia was also arrested in connection with the first incident in Atlanta. He was charged with disorderly conduct, criminal trespassing, public indecency and indecent exposure. The league released a statement following that arrest, threatening prosecution and a ban on any fan that engages in similar behavior. A view of a Wilson basketball and the Dallas Wings logo during the game between the Wings and the Indiana Fever at the American Airlines Center on June 27, 2025. (Jerome Miron/Imagn Images) CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP "The safety and well-being of everyone in our arenas is a top priority for our league. Objects of any kind thrown onto the court or in the seating area can pose a safety risk for players, game officials, and fans," the statement read. "In line with WNBA Arena Security Standards, any fan who intentionally throws an object onto the court will be immediately ejected and face a minimum one-year ban in addition to being subject to arrest and prosecution by local authorities." Players and coaches have continued to speak out against the disruptions. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X, and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter. Paulina Dedaj is a Sports Reporter for Fox News Digital. Related Topics WNBA Chicago Sky Atlanta Dream Sports Crime Fox News First Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox. Arrives Weekdays By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!