Ghislaine Maxwell prison transfer called 'highly unusual' by former federal prison official
U.S. Ghislaine Maxwell prison transfer called 'highly unusual' by former federal prison official Move to minimum security facility comes week after Maxwell met with deputy attorney general about Jeffrey Epstein involvement By Adam Sabes , Ashley Papa Fox News Published August 8, 2025 8:00am EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Former federal prison director says Ghislaine Maxwell's prison transfer 'highly unusual' Judi Garrett, former assistant director at the Federal Bureau of Prisons, said Ghislaine Maxwell's transfer to a minimum security prison camp is "highly unusual." NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! The former assistant director at the Federal Bureau of Prisons says that Jeffrey Epstein's accomplice's move to a minimum security prison is "highly unusual." Ghislaine Maxwell was transferred from a federal prison facility in Tallahassee, Florida, to a Federal Prison Camp in Bryan, Texas, her attorney previously told Fox News Digital. Neither the Bureau of Prisons nor Maxwell's attorney gave a reason for the move. Others at the female-only faculty, FPC Bryan, include Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes and celebrity housewife Jen Shah. The prison primarily houses white-collar criminals convicted of non-violent crimes. The move sparked criticism from the family of Virginia Giuffre, who said in a statement to Fox News they oppose the treatment Maxwell has been given. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WEIGHS RELEASE OF GHISLAINE MAXWELL INTERVIEW General view of Federal Prison Camp Bryan, Monday, August 4, 2025 in Bryan, Texas. Ghislaine Maxwell was transferred here last week from her FCI Tallahassee. (Derek Shook for Fox News Digital) Elizabeth Holmes exercises on the track at Federal Prison Camp in Bryan, Texas, Saturday, Aug. 2, 2025. The 41-year-old fraudster is serving an 11-year sentence for fraud related to her former company, Theranos. (Derek Shook for Fox News Digital) "It is with horror and outrage that we object to the preferential treatment convicted sex trafficker Ghislaine Maxwell has received," Giuffre's family wrote in a statement. "Ghislaine Maxwell is a sexual predator who physically assaulted minor children on multiple occasions, and she should never be shown any leniency. Yet, without any notification to the Maxwell victims, the government overnight has moved Maxwell to a minimum security luxury prison in Texas. This is the justice system failing victims right before our eyes." Judi Garrett, former assistant director at the Federal Bureau of Prisons, told Fox News Digital the transfer of Maxwell to FPC Bryan is "highly unusual." Garrett said it's "very rare" for a sex offender to be transferred to a minimum security facility like FPC Bryan, adding that traditionally, individuals designated as a sex offender cannot be placed inside a camp. ELIZABETH HOLMES SPOTTED AT TEXAS PRISON WHERE GHISLAINE MAXWELL WAS TRANSFERRED Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell were both indicted on federal sex trafficking charges stemming from Epstein's years of abuse of underage girls. (Joe Schildhorn/Patrick McMullan via Getty Images) "I am sure there were more than one, but it was very rare, and it required a tremendous amount of work to convince us at the Bureau of Prisons that that information initially contained in the pre-sentencing investigation report was somehow inaccurate, mischaracterized, etc," Garrett said. At federal prison camps like FPC Bryan, Garrett said that there's no fence, and prisoners aren't watched constantly. "Being that camps are minimum security, the notion is we don't have fear that the people are going to run off because they are unrestricted essentially," Garrett said. "You could leave whenever you want, there's no fence. We don't fear that you are gonna harm one another, and we don't have fear that you are going pose any kind of risk to the community. Minimal staffing so that people are not watching you all the time, supervising you all time." Since Maxwell is at a minimum-security prison camp, Garrett said it's not likely prison guards will be able to keep a closer eye on Maxwell versus other inmates. General view of Federal Prison Camp Bryan, Monday, August 4, 2025, in Bryan, Texas. Ghislaine Maxwell was transferred here last week from her FCI Tallahassee. (Derek Shook for Fox News Digital) "Really hard to do in a camp, you just don't have staff there," she said. "I don't know, honestly, that there's a lot they can do, and I think that's probably what is giving them some heartburn, given her connection to Jeffrey Epstein." Dave Aronberg, former Palm Beach County State Attorney, previously told Fox News Digital Maxwell's new facility is more of a "dorm-style housing situation, rather than a cell." Maxwell's move to FPC Bryan comes a week after she met with Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche at a courthouse in Florida to discuss her involvement with Epstein, whom she helped procure underage girls for him to abuse. Ghislaine Maxwell jogs around the track at FCI Tallahassee, Tallahassee, Florida, Thursday, July 10, 2025. Maxwell is serving a 20-year sentence for sex trafficking in connection with Jeffrey Epstein. (Matthew Symons for Fox News Digital) CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP A senior administration official previously told Fox News that "Any false assertion this individual was given preferential treatment is absurd. Prisoners are routinely moved in some instances due to significant safety and danger concerns." Fox News' Julia Bonavita and David Spunt contributed to this report. Adam Sabes is a writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to Adam.Sabes@fox.com and on Twitter @asabes10. Related Topics U.S. Jeffrey Epstein Ghislaine Maxwell Texas True Crime The hottest stories ripped from the headlines, from crime to courts, legal and scandal. Arrives Weekly By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time. Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!