Jimmy Kimmel admits 'repulsive' liberal scolds are driving people away from the Democratic Party
Media Jimmy Kimmel admits 'repulsive' liberal scolds are driving people away from the Democratic Party Anti-Trump late-night host discussed cancel culture on left with Sarah Silverman By Kristine Parks , Alexander Hall Fox News Published August 8, 2025 9:00pm EDT Facebook Twitter Flipboard Comments Print Email close Video Jimmy Kimmel admits 'repulsive' voices on the left are driving voters away Late-night host Jimmy Kimmel, an outspoken liberal himself, blasted the loud, unwelcoming voices on the left who scare people away on "The Sarah Silverman Podcast." NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles! Late-night host Jimmy Kimmel admitted "repulsive" liberal voices are scaring people away from the Democratic Party during an appearance on the "Sarah Silverman Podcast" on Thursday. The comedians discussed cancel culture persisting on the left since President Donald Trump returned to office. They criticized those who continue to shun Trump voters who are now expressing regret for supporting the president. Silverman brought up how podcast host Joe Rogan has been attacked online for criticizing Trump's second term after supporting him in the 2024 election. She called it "ironic" that the party of "inclusivity" was "incredibly elitist." Anti-Trump Kimmel, who campaigned for Democrats in the 2024 election, defended his party while agreeing that some progressive figures have turned people away. TRUMP REPEATS CLAIM KIMMEL, FALLON ARE 'NEXT' AFTER STEPHEN COLBERT CANCELLATION Jimmy Kimmel called out cancel culture on the left since Trump's election victory, in a podcast appearance this week. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP, File) "Yes. But it's not- it's not the party. It's not the majority. It's the loud voices that scare people from saying what they believe and make you think twice about a joke or whatever," he responded. "You know, a lot of their points are valid, but a lot of them are also just repulsive, in that they repel people," Kimmel continued. "They go like, 'Oh, you're no fun. I don't want to be around you.' And I think that if you had to boil it down to one thing, that's kind of what it is." CLICK HERE FOR MORE COVERAGE OF MEDIA AND CULTURE In April, Kimmel blamed humorless liberal scolds trying to cancel comedians for Trump's rise to power. "I think a lot of the outrage is completely manufactured, and it’s like, a lot of these people who are angry aren’t really angry. I think these liberals who’ve done such a good job of viciously attacking comedians are a big part of the reason why Trump is the president right now," he said. Jimmy Kimmel & Donald Trump ((Photo by: Todd Owyoung/NBC/NBCU Photo Bank via Getty Images)(Yuri Gripas/Abaca/Bloomberg via Getty Images)) After "Late Show" host Stephen Colbert's show was canceled in July, Trump predicted this week that Kimmel and fellow late-night host Jimmy Fallon would be "next" to go off the air. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Fox News' Hanna Panreck contributed to this report. Kristine Parks is a reporter for Fox News Digital. Read more. Related Topics Media Culture Trends Cancel Culture Late Night Jimmy Kimmel Woke Culture Joe Rogan Podcasts Sarah Silverman Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox Arrives Weekdays Subscribe Subscribed Subscribe You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!