Dad's advice helps Boyle break 100 barrier for Hibs
Dad advice helps Boyle break 100 as Chaiwa signs Image source, SNS Image caption, Martin Boyle now has 101 goals for Hibernian Brian McLauchlin BBC Sport Scotland Senior Reporter in Belgrade Published 8 August 2025 Martin Boyle says his dad is to thank for finally securing his 100th goal for Hibernian in their landmark away win against Partizan Belgrade. Boyle also notched number 101 for the Leith club in their 2-0 victory in their Conference League third qualifying round second leg. The 32-year-old scored his 99th for the club in their 2-2 draw at home to Rangers in mid May but had failed to find the target in his four competitive games this season. "That's a special one," Boyle told BBC Scotland about the first strike in Belgrade. "My dad phoned me other day and he thought I was trying too hard and I probably was just trying to chase it. "So he told me to just put a smile on my face, like I always do, and enjoy it - and thankfully I went out there tonight. "So luckily I had him in my ear. I certainly did enjoy it, so I'm ready to go again. I always knew it was going to come, but obviously nights like this, it makes it even more special." Towards the end of last season, there was speculation the pacy winger may be leaving the club when his contract ended in June. However, the Easter Road board decided to trigger the option they had to extend his deal for another year, a decision that Boyle was more than pleased with. "Absolutely delighted," he said. "I'm delighted with the belief that the club's put in me over the last few years. I call this place home. "My family, kids have been brought up. They absolutely love the place and just cherish the moments like this. "We are still at the start of the season, there's a long way to go." Should Hibernian come through next week's second leg unscathed, they would be just one tie away from a place in the Conference league league phase. That play-off looks like being against Legia Warsaw after their 4-1 first-leg defeat by Larnaca. And the Australia international says the squad now assembled at Easter Road is more than capable of taking the next step. "We create a lot of opportunities in this unit, which is brilliant. We never seem to get the easier sort of ties," said Boyle, who will face Kilmarnock on Sunday on the return to league action. "We always go around it the hard way, but that's what we do. "We're relishing it. This is why we worked so hard last season to be in this sort of position. Like I say, the fans are loving it and we're really giving back at the moment, but we've still got a long way to go." Chaiwa checks in at Easter Road Meanwhile, Hibs have announced the signing of Zambia defensive midfielder Miguel Chaiwa. The 21-year-old has joined for an undisclosed fee from Swiss Super League club Young Boys on a three-year contract, with the option of an extension. Last term, Chaiwa featured 15 times for Young Boys, including Champions League appearances against Galatasaray, Celtic and Red Star Belgrade. The Swiss Cup and the Swiss Super League winner also has 11 senior caps. Hibs head coach David Gray said: "He's a young, athletic player that has a lot of potential. "He's keen to learn and develop and we look forward to working with him and helping him to progress." Related topics Scottish Premiership Scottish Football Football Hibernian More on this story Visit our Hibs page for all the latest news, analysis and fan views Get Hibs news notifications in the BBC Sport app Published 18 June 2023 The day Scottish football could feel good about itself Published 2 days ago Weekend Premiership preview and Euro Lookback