Patriots unveil statue of Tom Brady, QB who led them to 6 Super Bowl wins, before exhibition opener
Patriots unveil statue of Tom Brady, QB who led them to 6 Super Bowl wins, before exhibition opener 1 of 5 | A bronze statue of former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Steven Senne) Read More 2 of 5 | Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady speaks after a bronze statue of himself was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Read More 3 of 5 | Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, left, looks at a bronze statue of himself after it was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Read More 4 of 5 | A bronze statue of former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Steven Senne) Read More 5 of 5 | Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady speaks after a bronze statue of himself was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Read More Patriots unveil statue of Tom Brady, QB who led them to 6 Super Bowl wins, before exhibition opener 1 of 5 | A bronze statue of former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Steven Senne) Read More 1 of 5 A bronze statue of former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Steven Senne) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 2 of 5 | Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady speaks after a bronze statue of himself was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Read More 2 of 5 Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady speaks after a bronze statue of himself was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 3 of 5 | Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, left, looks at a bronze statue of himself after it was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Read More 3 of 5 Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, left, looks at a bronze statue of himself after it was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 4 of 5 | A bronze statue of former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Steven Senne) Read More 4 of 5 A bronze statue of former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Steven Senne) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 5 of 5 | Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady speaks after a bronze statue of himself was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Read More 5 of 5 Former New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady speaks after a bronze statue of himself was unveiled in Patriot Place Plaza before an NFL preseason football game between the Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots Friday, Aug. 8, 2025, in Foxborough, Mass. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By JIMMY GOLEN Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit FOXBOROUGH, Mass. (AP) — Tom Brady’s statue weighs six tons and rises 17 feet off the ground, from the bottom of the six-sided base — one for each of the New England Patriots’ Super Bowl victories — to the tip of the bronze fist raised in celebration. For a player who was too slow and immobile coming out of college to merit more than a No. 199 draft pick, that seems just about right. “When I was drafted, I just hoped to make the team. I never dreamed I’ll be standing here two and a half decades later, made of bronze and frozen in time,” Brady said Friday night at a ceremony to unveil the statue before the Patriots’ exhibition opener against the Washington Commanders. “But actually, it actually feels pretty appropriate given my 40-yard dash time.” A three-time NFL Most Valuable Player, five-time Super Bowl MVP and seven-time NFL champion — he won one after defecting to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers — Brady retired in 2023 as the league’s most-decorated player ever, holding records in dozens of categories that include most wins, yards passing, and passing touchdowns — for both the regular season and playoffs. The Patriots inducted him into their Hall of Fame last year, waiving the usual four-year waiting period, and retired his No. 12. At the ceremony, owner Robert Kraft said Brady would be the first player in franchise history to have a bronze statue outside the stadium. Related Stories Patriots offense shines in 48-18 exhibition win over Commanders, as Washington rests starters, vets Browns’ Shedeur Sanders impressive in NFL preseason debut, tosses 2 TD passes in win over Panthers Raiders’ Smith and Crosby make obscene gestures toward Seahawks fans The work by sculptor lifelong Patriots fan Jeff Buccacio unveiled Friday on the plaza outside the team’s Pro Shop and Hall of Fame features a hexagonal granite base and a 12-foot Brady, honoring Brady’s uniform number and making good on Kraft’s wish for it to be larger than life. It is 17 feet in all, representing the 17 AFC East titles the Patriots won in Brady’s 19 seasons. In his remarks, Brady pretended to be interrupted by a call from former coach Bill Belichick giving his opinion of the statue. “He said there’s still room for improvement,” Brady said. “I know that feeling.” Fans crowded the plaza, lined a nearby stairway and leaned over railings inside the stadium to watch the ceremony, interrupting Brady by chanting his name. Among those at the ceremony were Brady’s parents and children, current coach Mike Vrabel and former teammates Devin and Jason McCourty, David Andrews, Wes Welker and Brian Hoyer. Several members of the Commanders entourage also came by, including general manager Adam Peters and ex-Patriot and current Washington defensive end Deatrich Wise. “It was always important for me to be out there,” Vrabel said after the 48-18 victory over the Commanders. “Having somebody like that be part of this organization is pretty unique and pretty special. Glad I could be part of it a little bit.” In addition to the self-deprecating comments and the shot at Belichick, Brady said he didn’t think a statue was appropriate until he was “really old,” like Vrabel. But he saved his best for the rival New York Jets. “This statue isn’t just for Pats fans. It’ll also give all the Jets fans something to throw their beers at as they leave the stadium every year,” Brady said. “Probably in the second quarter.” ___ AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/NFL JIMMY GOLEN Golen covers Boston sports for The Associated Press, with a little bit of sports law and Olympic beach volleyball and curling mixed in. twitter mailto