Massachusetts sheriff arrested on charges of pressuring cannabis company over stock purchase
Massachusetts sheriff arrested on charges of pressuring cannabis company over stock purchase 1 of 2 | Suffolk County Sheriff Steve Tompkins poses for a portrait in the infirmary of the Suffolk County House of Correction in Boston on Sept. 24, 2021. (Craig F. Walker/The Boston Globe via AP) Read More 2 of 2 | Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins crosses the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Albany Street in Boston on Friday, April 6, 2018. (Patrick Whittemore/The Boston Herald via AP, File) Read More Massachusetts sheriff arrested on charges of pressuring cannabis company over stock purchase 1 of 2 | Suffolk County Sheriff Steve Tompkins poses for a portrait in the infirmary of the Suffolk County House of Correction in Boston on Sept. 24, 2021. (Craig F. Walker/The Boston Globe via AP) Read More 1 of 2 Suffolk County Sheriff Steve Tompkins poses for a portrait in the infirmary of the Suffolk County House of Correction in Boston on Sept. 24, 2021. (Craig F. Walker/The Boston Globe via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 2 of 2 | Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins crosses the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Albany Street in Boston on Friday, April 6, 2018. (Patrick Whittemore/The Boston Herald via AP, File) Read More 2 of 2 Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins crosses the intersection of Massachusetts Avenue and Albany Street in Boston on Friday, April 6, 2018. (Patrick Whittemore/The Boston Herald via AP, File) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit BOSTON (AP) — A sheriff in one of Massachusetts’ largest counties was charged Friday with allegedly pressuring a Boston-based cannabis firm to sell him stock in the company. Sheriff Steven Tompkins, 67, who oversees about 1,000 employees in the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Department, is facing two counts of extortion. He was taken into custody in Florida and had his first appearance there. He will appear in Boston federal court later. “Elected officials, particularly those in law enforcement, are expected to be ethical, honest and law abiding — not self-serving,” U.S. Attorney Leah Foley said in a statement. “His alleged actions are an affront to the voters and taxpayers who elected him to his position, and the many dedicated and honest public servants at the Suffolk County Sheriff’s Department. The people of Suffolk County deserve better.” No one from the sheriff’s department could be reached for comment and an attorney for Tompkins did not respond to a request for comment. According to the court documents, Tompkins first pressured the unnamed company for stock as it was considering launching an initial public offering in 2020. The company, according to the documents, feared Tomkins could undermine the company’s partnership with a sheriff department program that referred released inmates to work there. It feared that could put the company’s operating license risk as well as the timing of its initial public offering. Related Stories Rapper GloRilla is arrested on drug charges following investigation of a burglary at her home There are many illegal marijuana farms, but federal agents targeted California’s biggest legal one 2026 World Cup’s contingency plans for wildfire smoke risks remain unclear In November, 2020, Tompkins allegedly wired $50,000 from his retirement account to an account controlled by the company to purchase the stock. After the initial public offering, the stock value increased significantly. ▶ Stay up to date with the latest U.S. news by signing up to our WhatsApp channel. But when it began to fall a year later, Tompkins alleged demanded his money back and, despite, the decline in the stock’s value, the company gave him a full refund. Among the evidence in the court document was five checks written to Tompkins, with a note they were for a loan repayment. Tompkins has run afoul of the law before. In 2023, Tompkins paid a fine of $12,300 for violating conflict of interest laws after he created a position in his department for his niece and for asking his subordinates to run personal errands for him. If found guilty on the extortion charges, Tompkins could face a sentence of up to 20 years in prison on each count, three years of supervised release and a fine of $250,000.