How LGBTQ+ cafe's neon sign became beacon for hate in Berlin...
How an LGBTQ+ cafe’s neon sign became a beacon for hate in Berlin 1 of 7 | Attacks against LGBTQ+ people and establishments are rising across Germany. Last year, there was a 40% increase in anti-LGBTQ+ violence in 12 out of Germany’s 16 federal states as compared to 2023, according to officials, but activists say those figures only show a fraction of the scope of the problem. Read More 2 of 7 | This handout picture provided on Thursday, July 31, 2025 shows Nazi graffiti sprayed onto the entrance door of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe in Berlin, Germany. (Danjel Zarte via AP) Read More 3 of 7 | Exterior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Read More 4 of 7 | Interior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe with a neon sign reading ‘Queer And Friends’ in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Read More 5 of 7 | Exterior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe with a neon sign reading ‘Queer And Friends’ in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Read More 6 of 7 | People dance as they take part in the LGBTQ annual pride march in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 26, 2025. (AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi) Read More 7 of 7 | People attend the LGBTQ annual pride march in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 26, 2025. (AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi) Read More How an LGBTQ+ cafe’s neon sign became a beacon for hate in Berlin Read More 1 of 7 Attacks against LGBTQ+ people and establishments are rising across Germany. Last year, there was a 40% increase in anti-LGBTQ+ violence in 12 out of Germany’s 16 federal states as compared to 2023, according to officials, but activists say those figures only show a fraction of the scope of the problem. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 2 of 7 | This handout picture provided on Thursday, July 31, 2025 shows Nazi graffiti sprayed onto the entrance door of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe in Berlin, Germany. (Danjel Zarte via AP) Read More 2 of 7 This handout picture provided on Thursday, July 31, 2025 shows Nazi graffiti sprayed onto the entrance door of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe in Berlin, Germany. (Danjel Zarte via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 3 of 7 | Exterior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Read More 3 of 7 Exterior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 4 of 7 | Interior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe with a neon sign reading ‘Queer And Friends’ in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Read More 4 of 7 Interior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe with a neon sign reading ‘Queer And Friends’ in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 5 of 7 | Exterior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe with a neon sign reading ‘Queer And Friends’ in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Read More 5 of 7 Exterior view of the ‘Das Hoven’ cafe with a neon sign reading ‘Queer And Friends’ in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, July 31, 2025. (AP Photo/Fanny Brodersen) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 7 | People dance as they take part in the LGBTQ annual pride march in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 26, 2025. (AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi) Read More 6 of 7 People dance as they take part in the LGBTQ annual pride march in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 26, 2025. (AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 7 of 7 | People attend the LGBTQ annual pride march in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 26, 2025. (AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi) Read More 7 of 7 People attend the LGBTQ annual pride march in Berlin, Germany, Saturday, July 26, 2025. (AP Photo/Ebrahim Noroozi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By FANNY BRODERSEN and STEFANIE DAZIO Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit BERLIN (AP) — A neon sign inside the Das Hoven cafe in a trendy Berlin neighborhood proudly proclaims “QUEER AND FRIENDS.” The sign was intended to show the cafe is a safe space for LGBTQ+ people. But it has also become a beacon for hate and homophobic attacks. Owner Danjel Zarte said there are 45 pending criminal investigations related to the cafe over the past year and a half, ranging from verbal and physical attacks on patrons and workers to windows being broken or covered in feces and Nazi graffiti. One person even stood outside the cafe with a gun. “An act of terror,” Zarte said. “I sometimes have panic attacks in the morning and am afraid to look at my cell phone because I’m afraid that something has happened again.” Attacks against LGBTQ+ people and gay-friendly establishments are rising across Germany, including in Berlin, a city that has historically embraced the community, members of which often use the word queer to describe themselves. Last year saw a 40% increase in violence targeting LGBTQ+ people in 12 of Germany’s 16 federal states as compared to 2023, according to the Association of Counseling Centers for Victims of Right-Wing, Racist and Antisemitic Violence. More Stories The AP Top 25 has been around since 1936. Who votes and how does it work? Mets to celebrate 60th anniversary of the Beatles’ Shea Stadium concert with special night Keeping work from spoiling a vacation takes planning and the right phone settings Activists say those figures only show a fraction of the problem’s scope because victims are often afraid to come forward. They partly blame the rise of the far-right across Europe, including in Germany where the Alternative for Germany party made significant gains in the February election. Hostility toward LGBTQ+ people serves as a “rallying cry” for believers in right-wing extremism, according to Judith Porath, the association’s managing director. Experts have seen an increase in demonstrations and violence among neo-Nazis, most of whom are young men. Bastian Finke, the head of MANEO, an organization tracking anti-gay violence in the capital city, said those who are openly queer on Berlin’s roads “automatically run a very, very high risk simply because of who they are. To be attacked, to be insulted, to be spat on. We have these scenarios every day.” The fear was palpable at Saturday’s Christopher Street Day parade in Berlin. The annual Pride event commemorates the 1969 Stonewall rebellion in New York City, when a spontaneous street uprising was triggered by a police raid on the Stonewall Inn gay bar on Christopher Street in Greenwich Village. “The mood is actually tense: People are afraid, they are unsettled,” Thomas Hoffmann, a member of the event’s executive board, said Saturday. Hundreds of thousands of people showed up for the celebration, dancing to techno beats as they marched to the iconic Brandenburg Gate. “That is really a powerful, wonderful sign for more equality,” Hoffmann added. Hoffmann and others have long wanted German lawmakers to amend the constitution to explicitly include the legal protection of LGBTQ+ people from discrimination based on gender identity. But that looks unlikely to become a political priority. For Zarte, the stress of hate crimes and politics is nonstop, except during the Christopher Street Day parade, which always brings him to tears. “It is very moving to feel completely accepted once a year,” he said. ___ Pietro De Cristofaro in Berlin contributed to this report. STEFANIE DAZIO Dazio covers Northern Europe from Berlin for The Associated Press. She previously covered crime and criminal justice from Los Angeles.