8.7-magnitude earthquake in Russia's Far East sets off tsunami warnings in Japan, Alaska and Hawaii
Tsunami evacuations ordered in South America, but worst risk appears to pass for US after huge quake 1 of 12 | An 8.8 magnitude earth quake — one of the strongest ever recorded — struck Russia’s Far East early Wednesday, triggering tsunami waves in Japan and Alaska and prompting Pacific-wide warnings. Here’s a look back at some of the most powerful quakes in recorded history. Read More 2 of 12 | Three tsunami waves hit Russia’s coastal area of Severo-Kurilsk on Wednesday, in the main settlement on the Kuril Islands in the Pacific, according to the local mayor Aleksandr Ovsyannikov. Read More 3 of 12 | A magnitude-8.7 earthquake in Russia’s Far East early Wednesday prompted tsunami warnings in parts of Japan, Alaska and Hawaii. The Japanese government called for people living along the Pacific coast to evacuate to higher grounds. Read More 4 of 12 | 8.7-magnitude earthquake in Russia’s Far East sets off tsunami warnings in Japan, Alaska and Hawaii Read More 5 of 12 | Hawaii and parts of Japan downgraded tsunami warnings, with Hawaii lifting evacuation orders across the state while leaving a tsunami advisory in place. Read More 6 of 12 | A tsunami hit coastal areas of Russia’s Kuril Islands and Japan’s large northern island of Hokkaido after a powerful, 8.8-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Russia early Wednesday. Warnings are also in place for Alaska, Hawaii and other coasts south toward New Zealand. Read More 7 of 12 | One of the strongest earthquakes ever recorded struck off Russia’s sparsely populated Far East Wednesday, sending tsunami waves into Japan, Hawaii, the U.S. West Coast and now Chile. The AP spoke to a tsunami warning expert with the National Tsunami Warning Center. Read More 8 of 12 | A fisherman ties his boat near the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, as a precaution due to a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Read More 9 of 12 | Boats sit on the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after fishermen removed them from the water as a precaution following a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Read More 10 of 12 | A police officer patrols a street near the sea during a precautionary tsunami advisory in Valparaiso, Chile, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix) Read More 11 of 12 | Cars are at a standstill along the Pan-American Highway in Panama City, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, following a tsunami warning after a earthquake struck off the coast of Russia early Wednesday. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Read More 12 of 12 | People who evacuated to Hiyoriyama mountain watch toward the sea in Ishinomaki, Miyagi prefecture, northern Japan Wednesday, July 30, 2025 after a powerful earthquake in Russia’s Far East prompted tsunami alert in parts of Japan. (Muneyoshi Someya/Kyodo News via AP) Read More Tsunami evacuations ordered in South America, but worst risk appears to pass for US after huge quake Read More 1 of 12 An 8.8 magnitude earth quake — one of the strongest ever recorded — struck Russia’s Far East early Wednesday, triggering tsunami waves in Japan and Alaska and prompting Pacific-wide warnings. Here’s a look back at some of the most powerful quakes in recorded history. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 12 Three tsunami waves hit Russia’s coastal area of Severo-Kurilsk on Wednesday, in the main settlement on the Kuril Islands in the Pacific, according to the local mayor Aleksandr Ovsyannikov. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 12 A magnitude-8.7 earthquake in Russia’s Far East early Wednesday prompted tsunami warnings in parts of Japan, Alaska and Hawaii. The Japanese government called for people living along the Pacific coast to evacuate to higher grounds. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 4 of 12 8.7-magnitude earthquake in Russia’s Far East sets off tsunami warnings in Japan, Alaska and Hawaii Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 5 of 12 Hawaii and parts of Japan downgraded tsunami warnings, with Hawaii lifting evacuation orders across the state while leaving a tsunami advisory in place. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 6 of 12 A tsunami hit coastal areas of Russia’s Kuril Islands and Japan’s large northern island of Hokkaido after a powerful, 8.8-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Russia early Wednesday. Warnings are also in place for Alaska, Hawaii and other coasts south toward New Zealand. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 7 of 12 One of the strongest earthquakes ever recorded struck off Russia’s sparsely populated Far East Wednesday, sending tsunami waves into Japan, Hawaii, the U.S. West Coast and now Chile. The AP spoke to a tsunami warning expert with the National Tsunami Warning Center. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 8 of 12 | A fisherman ties his boat near the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, as a precaution due to a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Read More 8 of 12 A fisherman ties his boat near the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, as a precaution due to a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 9 of 12 | Boats sit on the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after fishermen removed them from the water as a precaution following a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Read More 9 of 12 Boats sit on the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after fishermen removed them from the water as a precaution following a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 10 of 12 | A police officer patrols a street near the sea during a precautionary tsunami advisory in Valparaiso, Chile, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix) Read More 10 of 12 A police officer patrols a street near the sea during a precautionary tsunami advisory in Valparaiso, Chile, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 11 of 12 | Cars are at a standstill along the Pan-American Highway in Panama City, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, following a tsunami warning after a earthquake struck off the coast of Russia early Wednesday. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Read More 11 of 12 Cars are at a standstill along the Pan-American Highway in Panama City, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, following a tsunami warning after a earthquake struck off the coast of Russia early Wednesday. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 12 of 12 | People who evacuated to Hiyoriyama mountain watch toward the sea in Ishinomaki, Miyagi prefecture, northern Japan Wednesday, July 30, 2025 after a powerful earthquake in Russia’s Far East prompted tsunami alert in parts of Japan. (Muneyoshi Someya/Kyodo News via AP) Read More 12 of 12 People who evacuated to Hiyoriyama mountain watch toward the sea in Ishinomaki, Miyagi prefecture, northern Japan Wednesday, July 30, 2025 after a powerful earthquake in Russia’s Far East prompted tsunami alert in parts of Japan. (Muneyoshi Someya/Kyodo News via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By JENNIFER SINCO KELLEHER, AUDREY McAVOY, MARI YAMAGUCHI and VLADIMIR ISACHENKOV Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit ▶ Follow live updates on the Pacific tsunami warnings and Russian peninsula earthquake HONOLULU (AP) — Fears of a devastating tsunami across the Pacific faded Wednesday after one of the strongest earthquakes ever recorded struck off a sparsely populated Russian peninsula, but communities along South America’s Pacific coast carried out evacuations and closed beaches. Warnings in the first hours after the 8.8 magnitude quake sent people fleeing to rooftops in Japan and forced tourists out of beachfront hotels in Hawaii, snarling island traffic. One death was reported in Japan, and in Russia, several people were hurt while rushing out of buildings, including a hospital patient who jumped from a window. A fisherman ties his boat near the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, as a precaution due to a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) A fisherman ties his boat near the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, as a precaution due to a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Millions of people were told to move away from the shore or seek high ground because they were potentially in the path of the tsunami waves, which struck seaside areas of Japan, Hawaii and the U.S. West Coast but did not appear to cause any major damage. The dire warnings following the massive quake early Wednesday off Russia’s Kamchatka peninsula evoked memories of catastrophic damage caused by tsunamis this century. AP AUDIO: 8.8 magnitude quake strikes off Russia’s Far East. Tsunami waves reach Japan, Hawaii and California AP correspondent Ben Thomas reports a powerful earthquake has struck Russia’s Far East, producing a tsunami in the northern Pacific. In Japan, people flocked to evacuation centers, hilltop parks and rooftops in towns on the Pacific coast with fresh memories of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami that caused a nuclear disaster. Related Stories A volcano in Russia’s Far East erupts for the first time in centuries People had hours before the tsunami hit Hawaii. How they spent it worsened evacuation gridlock FACT FOCUS: No, Oprah Winfrey didn’t block access to a private road amid tsunami warning evacuations Cars jammed streets and highways in Honolulu, with traffic at a standstill even far from the sea. “We’ve got water, we got some snacks ... we’re going to stay elevated,” said Jimmy Markowski, whose family from Hot Springs, Arkansas, fled their Waikiki beach resort before evacuation orders were lifted. “This is our first tsunami warning ever. So this is all new to us.” A traffic jam forms in Honolulu Tuesday, July 29, 2025 as people heed a tsunami evacuation warning that coincided with rush hour following a powerful earthquakes in Russia’s Far East early Wednesday. (AP Photo) A traffic jam forms in Honolulu Tuesday, July 29, 2025 as people heed a tsunami evacuation warning that coincided with rush hour following a powerful earthquakes in Russia’s Far East early Wednesday. (AP Photo) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem said the worst had passed. Later Wednesday, tsunami advisories for Hawaii, Alaska, Oregon and Washington state were canceled but remained for parts of northern California, where authorities warned to stay away from beaches and advised that dangerous currents should be expected through Thursday morning. Experts say it’s challenging to know when to drop advisories, which signal the potential for strong currents, dangerous waves and flooding. “It’s kind of hard to predict because this is such an impactful event and has created so many of these waves passing by,” said Dave Snider, tsunami warning coordinator for the National Tsunami Warning Center in Alaska. Among the world’s strongest recorded quakes The earthquake was the strongest recorded since the 9.1 magnitude earthquake off Japan in 2011 caused a massive tsunami and meltdowns at a nuclear power plant. Japan’s nuclear plants reported no abnormalities this time. Wednesday’s quake occurred along the “Ring of Fire,” a series of seismic faults around the Pacific Ocean. It was centered offshore, about 120 kilometers (75 miles) from Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, Kamchatka’s regional capital. Multiple aftershocks as strong as 6.9 magnitude followed. Russia’s Oceanology Institute said tsunami waves of less than 6 meters (20 feet) were recorded near populated areas of the peninsula. Lava flowed Wednesday from the Northern Hemisphere’s largest volcano in a remote area of Kamchatka, the Russian Academy of Sciences’ geophysical service said. Boats sit on the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after fishermen removed them from the water as a precaution following a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Boats sit on the shore in Veracruz, Panama, Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after fishermen removed them from the water as a precaution following a tsunami warning after an earthquake struck off the coast of Russia. (AP Photo/Matias Delacroix) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 3 countries in South America lift tsunami warnings In South America, three of the four countries with coastlines on the Pacific lifted their tsunami warnings. Authorities in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru announced that tsunami alerts were removed. In Chile, the country with the largest Pacific coastline in South America, the government kept the alert along most of the coastline but lifted it in some areas where authorities said there was no longer a risk. Chile’s Interior Minister Álvaro Elizalde said late Wednesday that evacuation orders remain in force in areas with alerts in place, and that schools will be closed again on Thursday. He said a wave in one location measured 8.2 feet (2.5 meters), while in other areas they reached a height of 3.6 feet (1.1 meters). Chile is highly vulnerable to earthquakes and tsunamis. Hawaii downgrades to tsunami advisory Authorities in Hawaii downgraded the state to a tsunami advisory, and evacuation orders on the Big Island and Oahu, the most populated island, were lifted. “As you return home, still stay off the beach and stay out of the water,” said James Barros, administrator of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency. In northern California, tsunami waves of 3.6 feet (1.1 meters) were recorded in Crescent City, which has a history of tsunami disasters. Even waves of just several feet high might pose a significant risk. “It might only be 3 feet, but it’s a wall of water that’s 3 feet and spans hundreds of miles. Three feet of water can easily inundate inland and flood a couple blocks inland from the beach,” said Diego Melgar, director of Cascadia Region Earthquake Science Center at the University of Oregon. In this image taken from a video released by Russian Emergency Ministry Press Service, rescuers inspect a kindergarten damaged by an earthquake in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, Russia, Wednesday, July 30, 2025. (Russian Emergency Ministry Press Service via AP) In this image taken from a video released by Russian Emergency Ministry Press Service, rescuers inspect a kindergarten damaged by an earthquake in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, Russia, Wednesday, July 30, 2025. (Russian Emergency Ministry Press Service via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Russian regions report limited damage In Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, the quake damaged a kindergarten that was unoccupied. A video released by a Russian media outlet showed doctors at a cancer clinic on Kamchatka holding a patient and clutching medical equipment as the quake rocked an operating room. Authorities on the sparsely populated Kuril Islands reported several waves flooded the fishing port of Severo-Kurilsk, the main city on the islands, and cut power supplies to the area. The port’s mayor said no major damage was recorded. People take shelter on the roof of a fire station in Mukawa town, Hokkaido, northern Japan Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after a powerful earthquake in Russia’s Far East prompted tsunami alert in parts of Japan. (Kyodo News via AP) People take shelter on the roof of a fire station in Mukawa town, Hokkaido, northern Japan Wednesday, July 30, 2025, after a powerful earthquake in Russia’s Far East prompted tsunami alert in parts of Japan. (Kyodo News via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Hot weather affected Japan’s evacuations Japan reported one death, and other people were injured or suffered heat-related illnesses during its tsunami evacuations. A woman in her 50s died after falling from a cliffside road while driving to an evacuation center in the Mie prefecture in central Japan, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshimasa Hayashi said Thursday. Another 10 people, most of them in Hokkaido, were injured while heading to take shelter. Separately, 11 others were taken to a hospital after developing symptoms of heat illness while taking shelter in the hot weather, with temperatures rising to around 40 Celsius (104 Fahrenheit) in some places in the country. A tsunami of 2 feet (60 centimeters) was recorded in Hamanaka town in Hokkaido and Kuji port in Iwate, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency. In Iwaki, a city in Fukushima prefecture, which was the epicenter of the 2011 tsunami and quake, residents gathered at a hilltop park after a community siren sounded and breakwater gates were closed. Workers at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, severely damaged in 2011, took shelter on higher ground while remotely monitoring operations, the operator said. Hours later, Japan downgraded its tsunami alert but left an advisory in place along the Pacific coast. ___ Associated Press journalists around the world contributed to this report. ___ This story has been updated to correct that the Japan quake’s magnitude was 9.1, not 9.0. AUDREY McAVOY McAvoy is a Honolulu-based reporter focused on covering state government and general news in Hawaii. mailto MARI YAMAGUCHI Yamaguchi is based in Tokyo and covers Japanese politics, security, nuclear energy and social issues for The Associated Press. twitter mailto