Gunman who killed 4 at NYC building was targeting NFL offices but took wrong elevator, mayor says
Gunman who killed 4 in NYC building blamed NFL for mental health issues and was targeting its office 1 of 9 | New York Mayor Eric Adams attended a multi-faith vigil on Tuesday evening for the four people who were shot dead inside a Manhattan office tower a day earlier. (AP video by Joseph Frederick) Read More 2 of 9 | The shooter was Shane Tamura; authorities say he was intending to target the NFL offices in Manhattan but entered the wrong elevator in the Midtown skyscraper. Among the victims was Didarul Islam, 36, had served as a police officer in New York City for 3 1/2 years. He was an immigrant from Bangladesh. Read More 3 of 9 | Family members speak after shooting death of off-duty New York City police officer, Didarul Islam (AP Video: David R. Martin) Read More 4 of 9 | A man stalked through a Manhattan office tower firing a rifle Monday, killing four people, including a New York City police officer, and wounding a fifth before taking his own life, officials said. Read More 5 of 9 | The shooting in Midtown happened at the end of the workday, with the gunman travelling cross country to get to New York. The officer killed was Didarul Islam, 36, an immigrant from Bangladesh who had served as a police officer in New York City for 3 1/2 years. (Production: Luke Garratt) Read More 6 of 9 | This image from surveillance video obtained by The Associated Press shows Shane Tamura outside a Manhattan office building on Monday, July 28, 2025 in New York. (AP Photo) Read More 7 of 9 | CORRECTS TO NEVADA DEPT. OF MOTOR VEHICLES This undated image provided by Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles shows Shane Tamura. (Nevada Dept. of Motor Vehicles via AP) Read More 8 of 9 | Members of the NYPD Crime Unit examine a door with bullet holes at the scene of the previous day’s deadly shooting, Tuesday, July 29, 2025, in New York. (AP Photo/Yuki Iwamura) Read More 9 of 9 | New York Police officers arrive at the NYPD 47th Precinct where NYPD officer Didarul Islam, who was killed Monday, served, in the Bronx borough of New York, Tuesday, July 29, 2025. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig) Read More Gunman who killed 4 in NYC building blamed NFL for mental health issues and was targeting its office Read More 1 of 9 New York Mayor Eric Adams attended a multi-faith vigil on Tuesday evening for the four people who were shot dead inside a Manhattan office tower a day earlier. (AP video by Joseph Frederick) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 9 The shooter was Shane Tamura; authorities say he was intending to target the NFL offices in Manhattan but entered the wrong elevator in the Midtown skyscraper. Among the victims was Didarul Islam, 36, had served as a police officer in New York City for 3 1/2 years. He was an immigrant from Bangladesh. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 9 Family members speak after shooting death of off-duty New York City police officer, Didarul Islam (AP Video: David R. Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 4 of 9 A man stalked through a Manhattan office tower firing a rifle Monday, killing four people, including a New York City police officer, and wounding a fifth before taking his own life, officials said. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 5 of 9 The shooting in Midtown happened at the end of the workday, with the gunman travelling cross country to get to New York. The officer killed was Didarul Islam, 36, an immigrant from Bangladesh who had served as a police officer in New York City for 3 1/2 years. (Production: Luke Garratt) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 9 | This image from surveillance video obtained by The Associated Press shows Shane Tamura outside a Manhattan office building on Monday, July 28, 2025 in New York. (AP Photo) Read More 6 of 9 This image from surveillance video obtained by The Associated Press shows Shane Tamura outside a Manhattan office building on Monday, July 28, 2025 in New York. (AP Photo) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 7 of 9 | CORRECTS TO NEVADA DEPT. OF MOTOR VEHICLES This undated image provided by Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles shows Shane Tamura. (Nevada Dept. of Motor Vehicles via AP) Read More 7 of 9 CORRECTS TO NEVADA DEPT. OF MOTOR VEHICLES This undated image provided by Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles shows Shane Tamura. (Nevada Dept. of Motor Vehicles via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 8 of 9 | Members of the NYPD Crime Unit examine a door with bullet holes at the scene of the previous day’s deadly shooting, Tuesday, July 29, 2025, in New York. (AP Photo/Yuki Iwamura) Read More 8 of 9 Members of the NYPD Crime Unit examine a door with bullet holes at the scene of the previous day’s deadly shooting, Tuesday, July 29, 2025, in New York. (AP Photo/Yuki Iwamura) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 9 of 9 | New York Police officers arrive at the NYPD 47th Precinct where NYPD officer Didarul Islam, who was killed Monday, served, in the Bronx borough of New York, Tuesday, July 29, 2025. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig) Read More 9 of 9 New York Police officers arrive at the NYPD 47th Precinct where NYPD officer Didarul Islam, who was killed Monday, served, in the Bronx borough of New York, Tuesday, July 29, 2025. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By JENNIFER PELTZ, CEDAR ATTANASIO, DAVE COLLINS, JOHN SEEWER, PHILIP MARCELO, ERIC TUCKER and MIKE BALSAMO Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit ▶ Follow live updates on the New York City office shooting NEW YORK (AP) — A gunman who killed four people inside a Manhattan office tower blamed his mental health problems on the National Football League and intended to target its headquarters but took the wrong elevator, officials said Tuesday. Shane Tamura, a Las Vegas casino security worker, was carrying a handwritten note in his wallet that claimed he had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, known at CTE, investigators said. He accused the league of hiding the dangers of brain injuries linked to contact sports. Tamura, 27, sprayed the skyscraper’s lobby with bullets then shot another person in a 33rd-floor office on Monday before he killed himself, authorities said. Among the dead were a police officer, a security guard and two people who worked at companies in the building. An NFL employee was badly wounded but survived. The attacker’s grievances with the NFL emerged as police worked to piece together his background and motivations, and as loved ones began to mourn the dead. It’s unclear whether Tamura showed symptoms of CTE, which can be diagnosed only by examining a brain after death. Tamura, who played high school football in California a decade ago but never played in the NFL, had a history of mental illness, police said without giving details. In the three-page note found on his body, he accused the NFL of concealing the dangers to players’ brains for profit. The degenerative brain disease has been linked to concussions and other repeated head trauma common in contact sports such as football. Related Stories 3 Sept. 11 victims’ remains are newly identified, nearly 24 years later Mourners honor the NYPD officer killed in the attack at the NFL headquarters building Senate confirms Trump lawyer Emil Bove for appeals court, pushing past whistleblower claims Detectives planned to question a man who supplied gun parts for the AR-15-style rifle used in the attack, including the weapon’s lower receiver, Police Commissioner Jessica Tisch said in a video statement. She and members of the force also paid tribute to Officer Didarul Islam, who was guarding the building on a paid security job when he was killed. His flag-draped remains arrived late Tuesday afternoon at the Bronx mosque preparing for his funeral. A multifaith vigil Mayor Eric Adams visited the scene and recalled working in the mailroom of the building as a young man. “To have to walk through and see the remnants of violence at that level, tore at me,” he told mourners at an evening multifaith vigil for those killed. Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist, Hindu, Christian and other faith leaders delivered prayers at the gathering held at a park about a dozen blocks from where the shooting took place. Both Adams and Gov. Kathy Hochul spoke of the need for stronger gun laws. Hochul said guns designed to kill people on battlefields shouldn’t be in New York buildings. “We cannot respond to senseless gun laws through vigils,” Adams said. NFL boss calls shooting ‘unspeakable’ Tamura’s note repeatedly said he was sorry and asked that his brain be studied for CTE. He mentioned a PBS Frontline documentary about the disease and referred to former NFL player Terry Long, who was diagnosed with CTE, and the manner in which Long killed himself in 2005. The NFL long denied the link between football and CTE, but it acknowledged the connection in 2016 testimony before Congress and has paid more than $1.4 billion to retired players to settle concussion-related claims. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, who works out of the offices, called the shooting “an unspeakable act of violence,” saying he was deeply grateful to the law enforcement officers who responded. Goodell said in a memo to staff that the injured NFL employee was hospitalized in stable condition. The shooting happened at a skyscraper on Park Avenue, one of the nation’s most recognized streets, just blocks from Grand Central Terminal and Rockefeller Center. It is less than a 15-minute walk from where UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson was shot and killed last December by a man who prosecutors say was angry over what he saw as corporate greed. Monday’s attack drew a response from the White House, with President Donald Trump posting that his “heart is with the families of the four people who were killed” and that the officer “made the ultimate sacrifice.” Video shows the gunman stroll into the building Tamura, who worked in the security department at the Horseshoe Las Vegas but failed to show up for his shift Sunday, drove across the country over the past few days and into New York City just before the attack, Tisch said. Surveillance video showed Tamura exit his BMW outside the building at about 6:30 p.m. Monday wearing a button-down shirt and jacket with the rifle at his side. Once inside the lobby, he opened fire and killed Islam and Wesley LePatner, a real estate executive at the investment firm Blackstone, which occupies much of the building. Tamura then made his way toward the elevator bank, shooting the NFL employee and an unarmed security guard, Aland Etienne, who helped control access to the upper floors. Tamura waited for the next elevator to arrive in the lobby, let a woman walk safely out of the elevator, then rode it up to the 33rd-floor offices of the company that owns the building, Rudin Management. He killed a worker for that company before killing himself, officials said. Friends and family mourn killed officer Islam, 36, had served as a police officer in New York City for over three years and was an immigrant from Bangladesh, Tisch said. He was working a department-approved job, in his New York Police Department uniform, when he was shot. AP AUDIO: Gunman who killed 4 at NYC building was targeting NFL offices but took wrong elevator, mayor says AP correspondent Julie Walker reports from the scene of Monday’s deadly shooting in Manhattan - on a possible motive. Islam leaves a pregnant wife and two children. Friends and family stopped by their Bronx home on Tuesday to drop off food and pay their respects. “He was a very friendly guy and a hardworking guy,” said Tanjim Talukdar, who knew him best from Friday prayers. “Whenever I see him or he sees me, he says, ’How are you, my brother?’” ___ This story was updated to correct that Tamura played high school football about a decade ago, not nearly two decades ago. ___ Collins reported from Hartford, Connecticut, and Seewer from Toledo, Ohio. Associated Press reporters Michael Balsamo, Philip Marcelo and Julie Walker in New York; Maryclaire Dale in Philadelphia, Rob Maaddi in Tampa, Florida; Mike Catalini in Trenton, New Jersey; and Eric Tucker in Washington contributed to this report. CEDAR ATTANASIO Attanasio covers New York City for The Associated Press with a focus on immigration and the ocean. He uses remote sensing to support the AP’s global coverage. twitter instagram facebook mailto JOHN SEEWER Seewer covers state and national news for The Associated Press and is based in Toledo, Ohio. twitter mailto PHILIP MARCELO Marcelo is a general assignment reporter in the NYC bureau. He previously wrote for AP Fact Check and before that was based in Boston, where he focused on race and immigration. twitter mailto ERIC TUCKER Tucker covers national security in Washington for The Associated Press, with a focus on the FBI and Justice Department. twitter mailto MIKE BALSAMO Balsamo is the national law enforcement editor for The Associated Press. He oversees coverage of the Justice Department, federal courts and criminal justice. twitter mailto