11 people stabbed at Michigan WALMART...
A man accused of stabbing 11 people at a Walmart is in Michigan authorities’ custody 1 of 6 | Authorities in Michigan say at least 11 people have been stabbed at a Walmart in Traverse City and a suspect is in custody. Read More 2 of 6 | Walmart employees and customers wait outside while law enforcement investigates the scene after a stabbing incident in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Read More 3 of 6 | Michigan State Police officers talk to employees near the scene after a stabbing incident at a Walmart in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Read More 4 of 6 | Law enforcement officers cross caution tape outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Read More 5 of 6 | Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Read More 6 of 6 | Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Read More A man accused of stabbing 11 people at a Walmart is in Michigan authorities’ custody Read More 1 of 6 Authorities in Michigan say at least 11 people have been stabbed at a Walmart in Traverse City and a suspect is in custody. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 2 of 6 | Walmart employees and customers wait outside while law enforcement investigates the scene after a stabbing incident in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Read More 2 of 6 Walmart employees and customers wait outside while law enforcement investigates the scene after a stabbing incident in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 3 of 6 | Michigan State Police officers talk to employees near the scene after a stabbing incident at a Walmart in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Read More 3 of 6 Michigan State Police officers talk to employees near the scene after a stabbing incident at a Walmart in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 4 of 6 | Law enforcement officers cross caution tape outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Read More 4 of 6 Law enforcement officers cross caution tape outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 5 of 6 | Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Read More 5 of 6 Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 6 | Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Read More 6 of 6 Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. (AP) — Eleven people were stabbed at a Walmart in Traverse City on Saturday — with six in critical condition — in what a Michigan sheriff said appeared to be a random act. A suspect was in custody, authorities said. Walmart employees and customers wait outside while law enforcement investigates the scene after a stabbing incident in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Walmart employees and customers wait outside while law enforcement investigates the scene after a stabbing incident in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Around 4:45 p.m., a 42-year-old man entered the store and used a folding knife to stab 11 people, the Grand Traverse County Sheriff’s Office said in a statement on social media. A sheriff’s deputy arrived within minutes and took the man into custody, and people in the store also helped apprehend the suspect and treat victims, the sheriff’s office said. The victims’ ages weren’t immediately released. “Eleven is 11 too many, but thank God it wasn’t more,” Sheriff Michael Shea told reporters. Michigan State Police officers talk to employees near the scene after a stabbing incident at a Walmart in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Michigan State Police officers talk to employees near the scene after a stabbing incident at a Walmart in Traverse City, Mich., Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jan-Michael Stump/Traverse City Record-Eagle via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Emergency vehicles and uniformed first responders gathered in the parking lot of the shopping center that houses several other retail stores. Authorities also were seen interviewing employees, still wearing blue uniform vests and name tags, nearby as the response gave way to an investigation. Tiffany DeFell, 36, who lives in Honor, about 25 miles (40 kilometers) from Traverse City, said she was in the store’s parking lot when she saw chaos erupt around her. “It was really scary. Me and my sister were just freaking out,” she said. “This is something you see out of the movies. It’s not what you expect to see where you’re living.” ▶ Stay up to date with the latest U.S. news by signing up to our WhatsApp channel. Munson Healthcare said via social media that 11 people were being treated at the region’s largest hospital in northern Michigan. Spokesperson Megan Brown said all were stabbing victims. Six people were critical and five were in serious condition late Saturday, she said. RELATED COVERAGE McDonald’s worker arraigned in fatal stabbing of manager at Detroit-area restaurant Co-worker kills Detroit-area McDonald’s employee who was mom of 6, police say Lawyers say plea deal is being pursued for Chinese scientist charged in US toxic fungus case Shea said the weapon involved appeared to be a folding-style knife. Shea said the suspect is believed to be a Michigan resident but declined to share further details. Michigan State Police had said earlier in the day that the suspect was in authorities’ custody. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer said: “Our thoughts are with the victims and the community reeling from this brutal act of violence.” Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Law enforcement officers are seen stationed outside a Walmart where 11 people were stabbed in a violent attack Saturday, July 26, 2025, in Traverse City, Mich (AP Photo/Ryan Sun) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Walmart said in a statement that it would continue to work closely with law enforcement in the investigation. “Violence like this is unacceptable. Our thoughts are with those who were injured and we’re thankful for the swift action of first responders,” the statement said. FBI Deputy Director Dan Bongino said in a social media post that bureau officials were responding to “provide any necessary support.” Traverse City is a popular vacation spot on the coast of Lake Michigan. It is known for its cherry festival, wineries and lighthouses and is about 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of Sleeping Bear Dunes National Lakeshore.