Don plays golf while protesters take to streets...
Trump plays golf in Scotland while protesters take to the streets and decry his visit 1 of 12 | President Donald Trump played golf Saturday at his course on Scotland’s coast while protesters around the country took to the streets to decry his visit and accuse U.K. leaders of pandering to the American. Trump is set to talk trade with the British Prime Minister and the European Commission president. Read More 2 of 12 | Hundreds of protesters gathered in the Scottish city of Edinburgh on Saturday to protest against U.S. President Trump’s visit to a golf resort. Read More 3 of 12 | U.S. President Donald Trump ignored questions from journalists as he played a round of golf at a Scottish resort on Saturday morning. A Sky News journalist was heard asking Trump, “Mr Trump, are you enjoying the Scottish hospitality? Can you escape the Jeffrey Epstein crisis?” referring to convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. Questions over Trump’s past ties with Epstein and secret files related to him have dogged the administration despite the president being otherwise at the height of his political influence. Read More 4 of 12 | US President Donald Trump and his entourage were back in action Sunday on his family’s golf resort in Scotland. (AP Video by Kwiyeon Ha) Read More 5 of 12 | The protesters waved a U.S. flag and held up a sign criticising U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer on the edge of the Turnberry resort. U.S. President Donald Trump is visiting Scotland for a golfing holiday, but is fitting in talks with Starmer on Monday. Read More 6 of 12 | People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Read More 7 of 12 | President Donald Trump waves to reporters as he sits in his golf cart at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Saturday, July 26, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More 8 of 12 | People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as US President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Read More 9 of 12 | President Donald Trump steers a golf cart at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Saturday, July 26, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More 10 of 12 | People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as US President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. ( Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Read More 11 of 12 | President Donald Trump waves as he plays golf at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Sunday, July 27, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More 12 of 12 | EDS NOTE: OBSCENITY - Trump supporters are watched by police and security forces as they hold signs near the Trump Turnberry golf course where President Donald Trump resides during his stay in Turnberry, Scotland, Sunday, July 27, 2025. (AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More Trump plays golf in Scotland while protesters take to the streets and decry his visit Read More 1 of 12 President Donald Trump played golf Saturday at his course on Scotland’s coast while protesters around the country took to the streets to decry his visit and accuse U.K. leaders of pandering to the American. Trump is set to talk trade with the British Prime Minister and the European Commission president. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 12 Hundreds of protesters gathered in the Scottish city of Edinburgh on Saturday to protest against U.S. President Trump’s visit to a golf resort. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 12 U.S. President Donald Trump ignored questions from journalists as he played a round of golf at a Scottish resort on Saturday morning. A Sky News journalist was heard asking Trump, “Mr Trump, are you enjoying the Scottish hospitality? Can you escape the Jeffrey Epstein crisis?” referring to convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. Questions over Trump’s past ties with Epstein and secret files related to him have dogged the administration despite the president being otherwise at the height of his political influence. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 4 of 12 US President Donald Trump and his entourage were back in action Sunday on his family’s golf resort in Scotland. (AP Video by Kwiyeon Ha) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 5 of 12 The protesters waved a U.S. flag and held up a sign criticising U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer on the edge of the Turnberry resort. U.S. President Donald Trump is visiting Scotland for a golfing holiday, but is fitting in talks with Starmer on Monday. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 12 | People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Read More 6 of 12 People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 7 of 12 | President Donald Trump waves to reporters as he sits in his golf cart at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Saturday, July 26, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More 7 of 12 President Donald Trump waves to reporters as he sits in his golf cart at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Saturday, July 26, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 8 of 12 | People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as US President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Read More 8 of 12 People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as US President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. (Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 9 of 12 | President Donald Trump steers a golf cart at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Saturday, July 26, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More 9 of 12 President Donald Trump steers a golf cart at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Saturday, July 26, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 10 of 12 | People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as US President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. ( Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Read More 10 of 12 People take part in a Stop Trump Scotland protest outside the US Consulate in Edinburgh, as US President Donald Trump begins his five-day private trip to the country at his Turnberry golf course in South Ayrshire on Saturday July 26, 2025. ( Jane Barlow /PA via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 11 of 12 | President Donald Trump waves as he plays golf at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Sunday, July 27, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More 11 of 12 President Donald Trump waves as he plays golf at the Trump Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, Sunday, July 27, 2025.(AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 12 of 12 | EDS NOTE: OBSCENITY - Trump supporters are watched by police and security forces as they hold signs near the Trump Turnberry golf course where President Donald Trump resides during his stay in Turnberry, Scotland, Sunday, July 27, 2025. (AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Read More 12 of 12 EDS NOTE: OBSCENITY - Trump supporters are watched by police and security forces as they hold signs near the Trump Turnberry golf course where President Donald Trump resides during his stay in Turnberry, Scotland, Sunday, July 27, 2025. (AP Photo/Alastair Grant) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By WILL WEISSERT Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit EDINBURGH, Scotland (AP) — President Donald Trump played golf Saturday at his course on Scotland’s coast while protesters around the country took to the streets to decry his visit and accuse United Kingdom leaders of pandering to the American. Trump and his son Eric played with the U.S. ambassador to Britain, Warren Stephens, near Turnberry, a historic course that the Trump family’s company took over in 2014. Security was tight, and protesters kept at a distance went unseen by the group during Trump’s round. He was dressed in black, with a white “USA” cap, and was spotted driving a golf cart. The president appeared to play an opening nine holes, stop for lunch, then head out for nine more. By the middle of the afternoon, plainclothes security officials began leaving, suggesting Trump was done for the day. Hundreds of demonstrators gathered on the cobblestone and tree-lined street in front of the U.S. Consulate about 100 miles (160 kilometers) away in Edinburgh, Scotland’s capital. Speakers told the crowd that Trump was not welcome and criticized British Prime Minister Keir Starmer for striking a recent trade deal to avoid stiff U.S. tariffs on goods imported from the U.K. Protests were planned in other cities as environmental activists, opponents of Israel’s war with Hamas in Gaza and pro-Ukraine groups loosely formed a “Stop Trump Coalition.” Anita Bhadani, an organizer, said the protests were “kind of like a carnival of resistance.” Related Stories Germany halts military exports to Israel for use in Gaza amid outcry over Netanyahu plan The Latest: Israel plans to take control of Gaza City, drawing international condemnation Controversy over corruption law shows the limits of Ukrainian goodwill toward Zelenskyy Trump’s late mother, Mary Anne MacLeod, was born on the Isle of Lewis in Scotland and the president has suggested he feels at home in the country. But the protesters did their best to change that. “I don’t think I could just stand by and not do anything,” said Amy White, 15, of Edinburgh, who attended with her parents. She held a cardboard sign that said “We don’t negotiate with fascists.” She said ”so many people here loathe him. We’re not divided. We’re not divided by religion, or race or political allegiance, we’re just here together because we hate him.” Other demonstrators held signs of pictures with Trump and Jeffrey Epstein as the fervor over files in the case has increasingly frustrated the president. In the view of Mark Gorman, 63, of Edinburgh, “the vast majority of Scots have this sort of feeling about Trump that, even though he has Scottish roots, he’s a disgrace.” Gorman, who works in advertising, said he came out “because I have deep disdain for Donald Trump and everything that he stands for.” Saturday’s protests were not nearly as large as the throngs that demonstrated across Scotland when Trump played at Turnberry during his first term in 2018. But, as bagpipes played, people chanted “Trump Out!” and raised dozens of homemade signs that said things like “No red carpet for dictators,” “We don’t want you here” and “Stop Trump. Migrants welcome.” One dog had a sign that said “No treats for tyrants.” Some on the far right took to social media to call for gatherings supporting Trump in places such as Glasgow. Trump also plans to talk trade with Starmer and Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president. But golf is a major focus. The family will also visit another Trump course near Aberdeen in northeastern Scotland, before returning to Washington on Tuesday. The Trumps will cut the ribbon and play a new, second course in that area, which officially opens to the public next month. Scottish First Minister John Swinney, who is also set to meet with Trump during the visit, announced that public money will go to staging the 2025 Nexo Championship, previously known as the Scottish Championship, at Trump’s first course near Aberdeen next month. “The Scottish Government recognizes the importance and benefits of golf and golf events, including boosting tourism and our economy,” Swinney said. At a protest Saturday in Aberdeen, Scottish Parliament member Maggie Chapman told the crowd of hundreds: “We stand in solidarity, not only against Trump but against everything he and his politics stand for.” The president has long lobbied for Turnberry to host the British Open, which it has not done since he took over ownership. In a social media post Saturday, Trump quoted the retired golfer Gary Player as saying Turnberry was among the “Top Five Greatest Golf Courses” he had played in as a professional. The president, in the post, misspelled the city where his golf course is located. ___ This story has been corrected to reflect that the Trump family’s company took over Turnberry in 2014, not 2008. WILL WEISSERT Weissert covers the White House for The Associated Press. He is based in Washington. twitter mailto