73 Palestinians killed while waiting for humanitarian aid in Gaza...
Officials say 85 Palestinians seeking aid are killed in Gaza as Israel widens evacuation orders 1 of 10 | Residents fled their homes with their belongings on Sunday as Israel’s military issued evacuation orders for areas of central Gaza. The orders cover one of the few places where Israel has rarely operated with ground troops and where many international organizations attempting to distribute aid are located. Read More 2 of 10 | At Gaza’s Shifa hospital, ambulances arrived in waves, unloading the wounded and the dead. Others carried the injured in by hand. Bodies wrapped in shrouds lay on the ground as mourners gathered around them, wailing in grief. Read More 3 of 10 | Smoke was seen rising after strikes hit Deir al-Balah in the Gaza Strip on Sunday. It comes as the Israeli military published new evacuation warnings for areas of central Gaza on Sunday, in one of the few areas where the military has rarely operated with ground troops. Read More 4 of 10 | An explosion was seen in the northern Gaza Strip from southern Israel early Sunday. The reason of the explosion shortly after midnight GMT was not known. Read More 5 of 10 | Latin Patriarch Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa held a mass in Gaza on Sunday after its only Catholic church was struck by an Israeli shell on Thursday. The attack killed three people and wounded 10, including a priest who had developed a close friendship with the late Pope Francis. Read More 6 of 10 | Palestinians react after carrying the bodies of those killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 7 of 10 | Palestinians carry sacks of humanitarian aid unloaded from trucks convoy that had been heading to Gaza City, in the northern Gaza Strip Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 8 of 10 | The bodies of Palestinians who were killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel are brought to a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 9 of 10 | Palestinians mourn their relatives who were killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City on Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 10 of 10 | Palestinians mourn over the body of Ezzedine Qassem who was killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More Officials say 85 Palestinians seeking aid are killed in Gaza as Israel widens evacuation orders Read More 1 of 10 Residents fled their homes with their belongings on Sunday as Israel’s military issued evacuation orders for areas of central Gaza. The orders cover one of the few places where Israel has rarely operated with ground troops and where many international organizations attempting to distribute aid are located. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 10 At Gaza’s Shifa hospital, ambulances arrived in waves, unloading the wounded and the dead. Others carried the injured in by hand. Bodies wrapped in shrouds lay on the ground as mourners gathered around them, wailing in grief. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 10 Smoke was seen rising after strikes hit Deir al-Balah in the Gaza Strip on Sunday. It comes as the Israeli military published new evacuation warnings for areas of central Gaza on Sunday, in one of the few areas where the military has rarely operated with ground troops. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 4 of 10 An explosion was seen in the northern Gaza Strip from southern Israel early Sunday. The reason of the explosion shortly after midnight GMT was not known. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 5 of 10 Latin Patriarch Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa held a mass in Gaza on Sunday after its only Catholic church was struck by an Israeli shell on Thursday. The attack killed three people and wounded 10, including a priest who had developed a close friendship with the late Pope Francis. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 10 | Palestinians react after carrying the bodies of those killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 6 of 10 Palestinians react after carrying the bodies of those killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 7 of 10 | Palestinians carry sacks of humanitarian aid unloaded from trucks convoy that had been heading to Gaza City, in the northern Gaza Strip Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 7 of 10 Palestinians carry sacks of humanitarian aid unloaded from trucks convoy that had been heading to Gaza City, in the northern Gaza Strip Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 8 of 10 | The bodies of Palestinians who were killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel are brought to a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 8 of 10 The bodies of Palestinians who were killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel are brought to a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 9 of 10 | Palestinians mourn their relatives who were killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City on Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 9 of 10 Palestinians mourn their relatives who were killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City on Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 10 of 10 | Palestinians mourn over the body of Ezzedine Qassem who was killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Read More 10 of 10 Palestinians mourn over the body of Ezzedine Qassem who was killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By WAFAA SHURAFA, FATMA KHALED, MELANIE LIDMAN and SAMY MAGDY Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit DEIR AL-BALAH, Gaza Strip (AP) — Gaza saw its deadliest day yet for aid-seekers in over 21 months of war as at least 85 Palestinians were killed while trying to reach food on Sunday, the territory’s Health Ministry said. There was new alarm as Israel’s military issued evacuation orders for parts of central Gaza, one of the few areas where it has rarely operated with ground troops and where many international organizations trying to distribute aid are located. One group said several offices were told to evacuate immediately. There was no immediate Israeli comment. The largest death toll was in devastated northern Gaza, where living conditions are especially dire. At least 79 Palestinians were killed while trying to reach aid entering through the Zikim crossing with Israel, Zaher al-Waheidi, head of the Health Ministry’s records department, told The Associated Press. The U.N. World Food Program said 25 trucks with aid had entered for “starving communities” when it encountered massive crowds. Palestinians mourn their relatives who were killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City on Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Palestinians mourn their relatives who were killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City on Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More A U.N. official, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not allowed to comment on the incident to the media, said Israeli forces opened fire toward crowds who tried to take food from the convoy. Footage taken by the U.N. and shared with the AP showed Palestinian men running as automatic gunfire was heard. Related stories Israel’s Bedouin Arabs turn to DIY solutions for lack of bomb shelters Syrian government and Druze minority leaders announce a new ceasefire A crowd surge at an aid site in Gaza run by an Israeli-backed group kills 20 Palestinians “Suddenly, tanks surrounded us and trapped us as gunshots and strikes rained down. We were trapped for around two hours,” said Ehab Al-Zei, who had been waiting for flour and said he hadn’t eaten bread in 15 days. He spoke over the din of people carrying the dead and wounded. ”I will never go back again. Let us die of hunger, it’s better.” Nafiz Al-Najjar, who was injured, said tanks and drones targeted people “randomly” and he saw his cousin and others shot dead. Israel’s military accuses Hamas of creating chaos Israel’s military said soldiers shot at a gathering of thousands of Palestinians in northern Gaza who posed a threat, and it was aware of some casualties. But it said the numbers reported by officials in Gaza were far higher than its initial investigation found. It accused Hamas militants of creating chaos. More than 150 people were wounded, some in critical condition, hospitals said. The bodies of Palestinians who were killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel are brought to a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) The bodies of Palestinians who were killed while attempting to access aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel are brought to a clinic in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Al-Waheidi said Israeli gunfire killed another six Palestinians in the Shakoush area, hundreds of meters (yards) north of a hub of the recently created Gaza Humanitarian Foundation, a U.S.- and Israel-backed group, in the southern city of Rafah. The GHF said it was not aware of any incident near its site. Witnesses and health workers say several hundred people have been killed by Israeli fire while trying to access the group’s aid distribution sites. Separately, seven Palestinians were killed while sheltering in tents in Khan Younis in the south, including a 5-year-old boy, according to the Kuwait Specialized Field Hospital, which received the casualties. Evacuation orders cut road across Gaza The new evacuation orders cut access between the central city of Deir al-Balah and Rafah and Khan Younis in the narrow territory. The military also reiterated evacuation orders for northern Gaza. Palestinians were startled to see the orders for parts of Deir al-Balah, a relative haven. “All of Rafah is under evacuation, and now you have decided that half of Deir al-Balah is under evacuation. Where will we move to?” asked resident Hassan Abu Azab, as others piled everything from bedding to live ducks onto carts and other vehicles. Smoke rose in the distance, with blasts and the sound of a siren. The United Nations was in contact with Israeli authorities to clarify whether U.N. facilities in the southwestern part of Deir al-Balah are included in the order, according to a different U.N. official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to speak to the media. The official said that in previous instances, U.N. facilities were spared from such orders. Palestinians react after carrying the bodies of those killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Palestinians react after carrying the bodies of those killed while trying to reach aid trucks entering northern Gaza through the Zikim crossing with Israel, at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, Sunday, July 20, 2025. (AP Photo/Jehad Alshrafi) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More The Medical Aid for Palestinians group said several humanitarian organizations’ offices and guesthouses had been “ordered to evacuate immediately” and nine clinics, including the MAP one, had been forced to shut down. It was not immediately clear what other groups were affected. Military spokesman Avichay Adraee called for people to head to Muwasi, a desolate tent camp with little infrastructure on Gaza’s southern coast that Israel’s military has designated a humanitarian zone. The announcement came as Israel and Hamas have been holding ceasefire talks in Qatar. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly asserted that expanding Israel’s military operations in Gaza will pressure Hamas in negotiations. Earlier this month, Israel’s military said it controlled more than 65% of Gaza. Palestinian death toll nears 59,000 Gaza’s population of more than 2 million Palestinians are in a catastrophic humanitarian crisis, now relying largely on the limited aid allowed into the territory. Many people have been displaced multiple times. Ambulances in front of three major hospitals in Gaza sounded their alarms simultaneously Sunday in an urgent appeal as hunger grows. The Health Ministry posted pictures on social media of doctors holding signs about malnourished children and the lack of medication. Hamas triggered the war when militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7, 2023, killing around 1,200 people and taking 251 others hostage. Fifty remain in Gaza, but fewer than half are thought to be alive. Israel’s military offensive has killed more than 58,800 Palestinians, according to Gaza’s Health Ministry, which doesn’t say how many militants have been killed but says over half of the dead have been women and children. The ministry is part of the Hamas government, but the U.N. and other international organizations see it as the most reliable source of data on casualties. The Hostages Family Forum, a grassroots organization that represents many families of hostages, condemned the new evacuation order and demanded that Netanyahu and Israel’s military explain what they hope to accomplish in central Gaza. “Enough! The Israeli people overwhelmingly want an end to the fighting and a comprehensive agreement that will return all of the hostages,” the forum said. On Saturday night, during a weekly protest, tens of thousands marched in Tel Aviv to the branch of the U.S. Embassy, demanding an end to the war. ___ Khaled and Magdy reported from Cairo and Lidman from Tel Aviv, Israel. ___ A previous version corrected the name of the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation. ___ Follow AP’s war coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/israel-hamas-war FATMA KHALED Khaled is based in the Middle East region. She covers humanitarian crises, conflict, among other news beats for The Associated Press. twitter mailto MELANIE LIDMAN Lidman is an Associated Press reporter based in Tel Aviv, Israel. SAMY MAGDY Magdy is a Middle East reporter for The Associated Press, based in Cairo. He focuses on conflict, migration and human rights abuses. twitter facebook mailto