I made an AI clone of my dead son - and let a journalist interview him
I made an AI clone of my dead son - and let a journalist interview him An interview between a US journalist and an AI clone of a teenager who was killed during a school shooting in 2018 has prompted criticism online. Experts say this is one of the first times that an AI avatar of a dead person has been used in this way. BBC Verify's Jake Horton has been speaking to the father of the teenager - 17-year-old Joaquin Oliver - and looks at the ethical questions the interview raises. Produced by Meiying Wu 1 day ago Artificial intelligence Media ethics United States Technology BBC Verify Share Save Watch: 'World's Ugliest Dog' crowned in California Held at the Sonoma County Fair in Santa Rosa, the annual event promotes adopting dogs of all ages and appearances. 22 hrs ago US & Canada Watch: 'Houston, we've had a problem' says Jim Lovell Jim Lovell, who guided Apollo 13 safely back to Earth, has died aged 97. 23 hrs ago US & Canada Watch: Tiny dog chases bear out of its Vancouver home The dog's owner wrote on TikTok that the bear broke into her home and was eating her dog's food before Scout discovered the intruder. 3 days ago US & Canada Watch: What to know about US interest rates staying steady A divided Federal Reserve has defied pressure from US President Donald Trump to lower the rates. 30 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: New York in shock after fatal office shooting A New York City police officer is among the four people killed in a shooting inside a Midtown Manhattan high-rise building. 29 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Timelapse shows powerful storm rolling into Minnesota The storm system that swept through state on Sunday left nearly 40,000 homes without power. 28 Jul 2025 US & Canada Passengers use emergency slides to flee plane fire in US One person was taken to hospital after a fire started during takeoff. 27 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Trump voters in Florida react to Epstein controversy The president has struggled to quell anger from some of his ordinarily loyal supporters over the Epstein files. 25 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Trump jokes he wants Powell to lower interest rates in tense exchange The US president and Federal Reserve chair bickered over the cost and timeline of the Fed’s headquarters renovation project during a tour. 25 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Video shows conditions in New York ICE processing centre The Trump administration has denied reports of overcrowding and poor conditions in migrant intake facilites as it ramps up deportation efforts. 24 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Hulk Hogan, from wrestling icon to Trump campaigner The wrestling legend of the 80s and 90s was reinstated into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2018 after being ejected for using a racist slur. 24 Jul 2025 US & Canada 'Come hug it out!' - How a Canadian tourism ad went viral The video features an embrace between a Canadian concierge and an American tourist, amid shifting US-Canada relations under President Trump. 23 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: 'Living is how I honour them' - Families address Idaho murderer Relatives of Bryan Kohberger's victims delivered emotional impact statements before he was sentenced to life in prison for killing four students. 23 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Idaho student murderer declines to speak ahead of sentencing Victims' families and friends spoke before Bryan Kohberger was sentenced to life in prison. 23 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Fans in the US on what Ozzy meant to them Fans in Los Angeles share how Osbourne’s music shaped their lives and inspired them. 23 Jul 2025 US & Canada Camp Mystic: Why were so many people killed there during Texas floods? The recent floods in Kerr County, Texas killed 135 people, including many young children. 22 Jul 2025 US & Canada Canadian couple recount frightening encounter with grizzly bear The pair were on a wedding anniversary hike in the Kananaskis Country area, where both black and grizzly bears are common. 21 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Plane catches fire during take-off A Delta Airlines flight was forced to return to Los Angeles airport, after one of the engines caught fire. 19 Jul 2025 US & Canada 'Oh God, there it goes' - Campervan swept under bridge in Indiana floods Flash floods swept away the empty vehicle, causing it to careen into the bridge. 18 Jul 2025 US & Canada Watch: Why is Donald Trump asking Coca-Cola to change its recipe? The US president says it's better to make the fizzy drink with cane sugar, but why might that be? 17 Jul 2025 US & Canada