Trump tours Texas flood sites and defends officials amid mounting questions about response
Trump tours Texas flood sites and defends officials as questions mount about response 1 of 8 | First lady Melania Trump expresses her “deepest sympathy” to the victims of a massive flood in Central Texas. Promising to return, she said she had received a special bracelet from the girls’ summer camp that was devastated in the deadly flooding. Read More 2 of 8 | President Donald Trump visited flood-ravaged areas in Texas on Friday, praising local officials and first responders for their efforts and expressing shock and deep concern over the widespread devastation caused by the storm. Read More 3 of 8 | President Donald Trump lashed out at a reporter Friday, suggesting she is “evil,” after she asked a question about whether the warning alert system for the devastating floods worked as well as it could have. Read More 4 of 8 | First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 5 of 8 | President Donald Trump, center, greets first responders as he observes flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 6 of 8 | People watch as President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump pass in a motorcade in Kerrville, Texas, to monitor flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 7 of 8 | First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 8 of 8 | President Donald Trump speaks as first lady Melania Trump, left, and Texas Gov. Greg Abbott listen during a roundtable discussion with first responders and local officials at Hill Country Youth Event Center in Kerrville, Texas, during a tour to observe flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More Trump tours Texas flood sites and defends officials as questions mount about response Read More 1 of 8 First lady Melania Trump expresses her “deepest sympathy” to the victims of a massive flood in Central Texas. Promising to return, she said she had received a special bracelet from the girls’ summer camp that was devastated in the deadly flooding. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 2 of 8 President Donald Trump visited flood-ravaged areas in Texas on Friday, praising local officials and first responders for their efforts and expressing shock and deep concern over the widespread devastation caused by the storm. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Read More 3 of 8 President Donald Trump lashed out at a reporter Friday, suggesting she is “evil,” after she asked a question about whether the warning alert system for the devastating floods worked as well as it could have. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 4 of 8 | First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 4 of 8 First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 5 of 8 | President Donald Trump, center, greets first responders as he observes flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 5 of 8 President Donald Trump, center, greets first responders as he observes flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 8 | People watch as President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump pass in a motorcade in Kerrville, Texas, to monitor flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 6 of 8 People watch as President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump pass in a motorcade in Kerrville, Texas, to monitor flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 7 of 8 | First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 7 of 8 First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 8 of 8 | President Donald Trump speaks as first lady Melania Trump, left, and Texas Gov. Greg Abbott listen during a roundtable discussion with first responders and local officials at Hill Country Youth Event Center in Kerrville, Texas, during a tour to observe flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Read More 8 of 8 President Donald Trump speaks as first lady Melania Trump, left, and Texas Gov. Greg Abbott listen during a roundtable discussion with first responders and local officials at Hill Country Youth Event Center in Kerrville, Texas, during a tour to observe flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By SEAN MURPHY and WILL WEISSERT Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit ▶ Follow live updates on President Donald Trump and his administration KERRVILLE, Texas (AP) — President Donald Trump on Friday toured the devastation from catastrophic flooding in Texas and lauded state and local officials, even amid mounting criticism that they may have failed to warn residents quickly enough that a deadly wall of water was coming their way. Trump has repeatedly promised to do away with the Federal Emergency Management Agency as part of his larger pledges to dramatically shrink the size of government, and he’s fond of decrying officials in Democrat-run states hit by past natural disasters and tragedy. But the president struck a far more somber and sympathetic tone while visiting America’s most populous Republican state — highlighting the heartbreak of what happened while effusively praising elected officials and first responders alike. “The search for the missing continues. The people that are doing it are unbelievable,” Trump, seated with officials around a table with emblazoned with a black-and-white “Texas Strong” banner, said at a makeshift emergency operations center inside an expo hall in Kerrville. He later added, “You couldn’t get better people, and they’re doing the job like I don’t think anybody else could, frankly.” Related Stories How closely do congressional delegations reflect how people vote? Not very Packers star Billy Howton, believed to have been the oldest living NFL player, dies at 95 Texas Democrats head to California as Republicans warn of more escalations over walkout Since the July 4 disaster, which killed at least 129 people and left more than 170 missing, the president has been conspicuously silent on his past promises to shutter FEMA and return disaster response to the states. Instead, he’s focused on the once-in-a-lifetime nature of what occurred in central Texas’ Hill Country and its human toll. “We just visited with incredible families. They’ve been devastated,” the president said of a closed-door meeting he and first lady Melania Trump had with the relatives of some of those killed or missing. Honoring the victims Trump’s shift in focus underscores how tragedy can complicate political calculations, even though he has made slashing the federal workforce a centerpiece of his administration’s opening months. He spent a lot of time Friday discussing the victims from Camp Mystic, the century-old all-girls Christian summer camp where at least 27 people were killed. “They were there because they loved God. And, as we grieve this unthinkable tragedy, we take comfort in the knowledge that God has welcomed those little beautiful girls into his comforting arms in heaven,” Trump said. The first lady described meeting “beautiful young ladies” from the area who she said gave her a “special bracelet from the camp in honor of all the little girls that lost their lives.” She promised to return to support the camp in the future. Trump approved Texas’ request to extend the major disaster declaration beyond Kerr County to eight additional counties, making them eligible for direct financial assistance to recover and rebuild. President Donald Trump, center, greets first responders as he observes flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) President Donald Trump, center, greets first responders as he observes flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Nancy Epperson, right, and Brooklyn Pucek, 6, visit a memorial for flood victims along the Guadalupe River on Thursday, July 10, 2025, in Kerrville, Texas. (AP Photo/Gerald Herbert) Nancy Epperson, right, and Brooklyn Pucek, 6, visit a memorial for flood victims along the Guadalupe River on Thursday, July 10, 2025, in Kerrville, Texas. (AP Photo/Gerald Herbert) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More “All across the country Americans’ hearts are shattered,” he said. “I had to be here as president.” Despite saying that he didn’t want to talk politics, Trump couldn’t help himself. During the roundtable, he bragged briefly about his administration reducing the cost of eggs around the country and, in a response to a question about Democratic criticisms of the flood response, said, “All they want to do is criticize.” “They’re getting just absolutely clobbered ‘cause everyone sees what an incredible job the governor did,” Trump said of Democrats. “Everybody in this room, everybody at this table in particular.” In praise of FEMA He also still insisted “we’ve got some good people” running FEMA. That is nonetheless a far cry from his call mere weeks ago to begin “phasing out” FEMA. At the White House, Russell Vought, director of the Office of Management and Budget, similarly dodged questions Friday about FEMA’s future. He said that the agency has billions of dollars in reserves “to continue to pay for necessary expenses.” “We also want FEMA to be reformed,” Vought said. “The president is going to continue to be asking tough questions of all of us agencies, no different than any other opportunity to have better government.” First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) First lady Melania Trump, from left, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and President Donald Trump are briefed on flood damage in Kerrville, Texas, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More On the ground in devastated communities, meanwhile, some state and local officials have faced questions about how well they were prepared and how quickly they acted — including if warning systems might have given more people time to evacuate. Asked about such concerns during his appearance at the operations center in Kerrville, Trump called a reporter “evil” and said he thought “everyone did an incredible job under the circumstances.” People watch as President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump pass in a motorcade in Kerrville, Texas, to monitor flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) People watch as President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump pass in a motorcade in Kerrville, Texas, to monitor flood damage, Friday, July 11, 2025. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More “I admire you, and I consider you heroes,” Trump said of the officials around him. He also praised a long list of Texas Republicans and had especially kind words for Rep. Chip Roy, who represents some of the hardest-hit areas. A staunch conservative, Roy initially opposed Trump’s sweeping tax-cut and spending package but ultimately supported it. “He’s not easy, but he’s good,” Trump said of Roy. The congressman, for his part, bristled at questions about authorities’ flood response, calling the queries about inadequate flood warnings “ridiculous.” Seeing the damage close-up Prior to the roundtable, Air Force One landed in San Antonio and Trump deplaned in a suit while the first lady wore more casual clothing — though both wore ball caps against the heat. The Trumps then boarded a helicopter to Kerrville and saw the flooding aftermath from the air. They later walked close to the Guadalupe River to receive a briefing from officials near an overturned tractor trailer, numerous downed trees and other debris. Roads in the center of town were shut down, and people lined the streets, some wearing Trump hats and T-shirts and waving American flags. Green ribbons recognizing the lives lost at Camp Mystic were tied around trees, poles and along bridges, and marquees featured slogans such as “Hill Country Strong” and “Thank you first responders.” Harris Currie, a rancher from Utopia, Texas, near Kerrville, said the flood devastation can be fully understood only by seeing it firsthand. “Pictures do not do it justice,” Currie said. Asked what officials on the ground needed most urgently from federal sources, Kerr County Commissioner Jeff Holt, who also is a volunteer firefighter, stressed the need for repairs to nonworking phone towers and “maybe a little better early warning system.” Trump himself has suggested that a major warning system should be established, though few details have been offered on what that might eventually entail. Friday’s visit was far different from the other times the first couple visited natural disaster sites, during Trump’s first weekend back in the White House in January. They toured North Carolina to scope out damage from Hurricane Helene and saw the aftermath of wildfires in Los Angeles, and the president sharply criticized the administration of his predecessor, President Joe Biden, and officials from deep-blue California. “The state of Texas, No. 1 they do it right and they’ve done it right for a long time,” Trump said. “And it’s a very special place to me.” ___ Weissert reported from Washington. SEAN MURPHY Murphy is the statehouse reporter for The Associated Press in Oklahoma City. He has covered Oklahoma news and politics since 1996. twitter mailto WILL WEISSERT Weissert covers the White House for The Associated Press. He is based in Washington. twitter mailto