Texas inspectors approved Camp Mystic disaster plan 2 days before deadly flood...
Texas inspectors approved Camp Mystic’s disaster plan 2 days before deadly flood, records show 1 of 6 | Texas Gov. Greg Abbott says more than 160 people are believed to be still missing days after the flash floods that killed more than 100 people across central Texas. Read More 2 of 6 | A Camp Mystic sign is seen near the entrance to the establishment along the banks of the Guadalupe River in Hunt, Texas, Saturday, July 5, 2025, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Read More 3 of 6 | This undated photo provided by John Lawrence on Monday, July 7, 2025, shows twin sisters, Hanna Lawrence, left, and Rebecca Lawrence, right, who were two of the victims killed by the flooding at Camp Mystic in central Texas on Friday, July 4. (John Lawrence via AP) Read More 4 of 6 | Camper’s belongings sit outside one of Camp Mystic’s cabins near the Guadalupe River, Monday, July 7, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Eli Hartman) Read More 5 of 6 | People react as they inspect an area outside sleeping quarters at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Sunday, July 6, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Read More 6 of 6 | A wall is missing on a building at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Saturday, July 5, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Read More Texas inspectors approved Camp Mystic’s disaster plan 2 days before deadly flood, records show Read More 1 of 6 Texas Gov. Greg Abbott says more than 160 people are believed to be still missing days after the flash floods that killed more than 100 people across central Texas. Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 2 of 6 | A Camp Mystic sign is seen near the entrance to the establishment along the banks of the Guadalupe River in Hunt, Texas, Saturday, July 5, 2025, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Read More 2 of 6 A Camp Mystic sign is seen near the entrance to the establishment along the banks of the Guadalupe River in Hunt, Texas, Saturday, July 5, 2025, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 3 of 6 | This undated photo provided by John Lawrence on Monday, July 7, 2025, shows twin sisters, Hanna Lawrence, left, and Rebecca Lawrence, right, who were two of the victims killed by the flooding at Camp Mystic in central Texas on Friday, July 4. (John Lawrence via AP) Read More 3 of 6 This undated photo provided by John Lawrence on Monday, July 7, 2025, shows twin sisters, Hanna Lawrence, left, and Rebecca Lawrence, right, who were two of the victims killed by the flooding at Camp Mystic in central Texas on Friday, July 4. (John Lawrence via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 4 of 6 | Camper’s belongings sit outside one of Camp Mystic’s cabins near the Guadalupe River, Monday, July 7, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Eli Hartman) Read More 4 of 6 Camper’s belongings sit outside one of Camp Mystic’s cabins near the Guadalupe River, Monday, July 7, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Eli Hartman) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 5 of 6 | People react as they inspect an area outside sleeping quarters at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Sunday, July 6, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Read More 5 of 6 People react as they inspect an area outside sleeping quarters at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Sunday, July 6, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More 6 of 6 | A wall is missing on a building at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Saturday, July 5, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Read More 6 of 6 A wall is missing on a building at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Saturday, July 5, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More By JIM MUSTIAN, CHRISTOPHER L. KELLER, SEAN MURPHY and RYAN J. FOLEY Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year] Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit HUNT, Texas (AP) — Texas inspectors signed off on Camp Mystic’s emergency planning just two days before catastrophic flooding killed more than two dozen people at the all-girls Christian summer camp, most of them children. The Department of State Health Services released records Tuesday showing the camp complied with a host of state regulations regarding “procedures to be implemented in case of a disaster.” Among them: instructing campers what to do if they need to evacuate and assigning specific duties to each staff member and counselor. Five years of inspection reports released to The Associated Press do not offer any details of those plans at Mystic, raising new questions about the camp’s preparedness ahead of the torrential July 4 rainfall in flood-prone Texas Hill Country. A Camp Mystic sign is seen near the entrance to the establishment along the banks of the Guadalupe River in Hunt, Texas, Saturday, July 5, 2025, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) A Camp Mystic sign is seen near the entrance to the establishment along the banks of the Guadalupe River in Hunt, Texas, Saturday, July 5, 2025, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More The National Weather Service had issued a flood watch for the area July 3 at 1:18 p.m. That danger prompted at least one of the roughly 18 camps along the Guadalupe River to move dozens of campers to higher ground. The uncertainty about what happened at Mystic comes as local officials have repeatedly dodged questions about who was monitoring the weather and what measures were taken ahead of the flooding. Tragedy falls on the historic camp Camp Mystic, established in 1926, did not evacuate and was especially hit hard when the river rose from 14 feet (4.2 meters) to 29.5 feet (9 meters) within 60 minutes in the early morning hours. Flooding on that stretch of the Guadalupe starts at about 10 feet (3 meters). A wall of water overwhelmed people in cabins, tents and trailers along the river’s edge. Some survivors were found clinging to trees. At least 27 campers and counselors died during the floods, and officials said Tuesday that five campers and one counselor have still not been found. Among the dead was Richard “Dick” Eastland, the camp’s beloved director described by campers as a father figure. Camper’s belongings sit outside one of Camp Mystic’s cabins near the Guadalupe River, Monday, July 7, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Eli Hartman) Camper’s belongings sit outside one of Camp Mystic’s cabins near the Guadalupe River, Monday, July 7, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Eli Hartman) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Charlotte Lauten, 19, spent nine summers at Camp Mystic, mostly recently in 2023. She said she didn’t recall ever receiving instructions as a camper on what do in the case of a weather emergency. “I do know that the counselors go through orientation training for a week before camp starts,” she said. “They do brief them on all those types of things.” One thing that likely hindered the girls’ ability to escape was how dark it would have been, Lauten said. Campers don’t have access to their phones while at camp, she said, adding they wouldn’t have cell service anyway because of the remote location. This undated photo provided by John Lawrence on Monday, July 7, 2025, shows twin sisters, Hanna Lawrence, left, and Rebecca Lawrence, right, who were two of the victims killed by the flooding at Camp Mystic in central Texas on Friday, July 4. (John Lawrence via AP) This undated photo provided by John Lawrence on Monday, July 7, 2025, shows twin sisters, Hanna Lawrence, left, and Rebecca Lawrence, right, who were two of the victims killed by the flooding at Camp Mystic in central Texas on Friday, July 4. (John Lawrence via AP) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More “This is the middle of nowhere and they didn’t have power,” she said. “It would have been pitch black, like could not see 5 feet in front of you type of darkness. I’ve never seen stars like there because there’s just no light.” Inspections found no issues The state inspected Camp Mystic on July 2, the same day the Texas Division of Emergency Management activated emergency response resources ahead of the anticipated flooding. The inspection found no deficiencies or violations at the camp in a long list of health and safety criteria. The camp had 557 campers and more than 100 staffers at the time between its Guadalupe and Cypress Lake locations. The disaster plans are required to be posted in all camp buildings but aren’t filed with the state, said Lara Anton, a spokesperson for the Texas Department of State Health Services. “We do not have them,” Anton said in an email. “You’d have to get it from the camp.” Camp Mystic did not respond to requests for comment on its emergency plan. In a statement on its website, the camp said it has been “in communication with local and state authorities who are tirelessly deploying extensive resources to search for our missing girls.” People react as they inspect an area outside sleeping quarters at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Sunday, July 6, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) People react as they inspect an area outside sleeping quarters at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Sunday, July 6, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More Camps are responsible for developing their own emergency plan. Inspectors evaluate the plans to ensure they meet several state requirements, including procedures for evacuation. “The inspector checked that they had plans posted for those elements in every building,” Anton said, “and that they had trained staff and volunteers on what to do.” Camp Mystic is licensed by the state and a member of the Camping Association for Mutual Progress, which says its goal is to “raise health and safety standards” for summer camps. Leaders of that association didn’t return messages. The American Camp Association said Tuesday that Camp Mystic is not accredited with that organization, whose standards focus on safety and risk management. Spokesperson Lauren McMillin declined to say whether the camp previously had been accredited with the association, which describes itself as “the only nationwide accrediting organization for all year-round and summer camps.” Authorities review rain and river gauges One rain gauge about a mile (1.6 kilometers) from Camp Mystic recorded 9.5 inches (24 centimeters) of precipitation July 4, according to Guadalupe-Blanco River Authority data. Another of the agency’s gauges — further south and to the west — recorded 12.2 inches (31 centimeters) of precipitation. The authority told the AP that a review of its equipment found both were functioning during the flood event. However, at least four United States Geological Survey gauges along the Guadalupe River experienced some level of failure July 4. The gauges, located near Hunt and Kerrville, stopped collecting both river levels and the flow rate of water in the early morning hours of July 4. A wall is missing on a building at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Saturday, July 5, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) A wall is missing on a building at Camp Mystic along the banks of the Guadalupe River, Saturday, July 5, 2025, in Hunt, Texas, after a flash flood swept through the area. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez) Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Read More One gauge, about 5 miles (8 kilometers) northeast of Camp Mystic, recorded a level of 29.5 feet (9 meters) at 4:35 a.m., according to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration data. It was the last recorded river level from the instrumentation until a USGS hydrologist installed a temporary gauge. At the time, the hydrologist measured the high water mark at 37.52 feet (11.44 meters). At that location, a river level of 32 feet (9.75 meters) could lead to “disastrous life-threatening flooding,” which could cover the roads of the lowest camps and resorts, according to NOAA. ___ This story has been updated to correct that the rain gauge that recorded 9.5 inches (24 centimeters) of precipitation was about a mile (1.6 kilometers) from Camp Mystic, not 1,500 feet (460 meters). ___ Mustian reported from Miami, Keller from Albuquerque, New Mexico, and Foley from Iowa City, Iowa. Associated Press reporter Hannah Fingerhut contributed from Des Moines, Iowa. JIM MUSTIAN Mustian is an Associated Press investigative reporter for breaking news. twitter mailto CHRISTOPHER L. KELLER Keller works with reporters and editors to find stories in data and documents and contributes context to spot and breaking news stories for The Associated Press. mailto SEAN MURPHY Murphy is the statehouse reporter for The Associated Press in Oklahoma City. He has covered Oklahoma news and politics since 1996. twitter mailto RYAN J. FOLEY Foley covers national news for The Associated Press and is based in Iowa City, Iowa. A 21-year AP veteran, he was part of the AP team honored as a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in investigative reporting for the 2024 series, “Lethal Restraint.” twitter mailto