Little-Pengelly defends Wimbledon trip as opportunity to champion NI
Little-Pengelly defends Wimbledon trip as chance to represent NI 1 day ago Share Save Share Save PA Emma Little-Pengelly had not directly addressed the criticism of her Wimbledon trip until a post on social media site X late on Friday Deputy First Minister Emma Little-Pengelly has defended her decision to accept an invitation to Wimbledon, saying she will always seek to promote and champion Northern Ireland. Almost £1,000 was spent on flights and accommodation when Little-Pengelly and Education Authority (EA) chief executive Richard Pengelly attended the tennis tournament. She has faced criticism for the spending from some Stormont parties, with Alliance's deputy leader saying she should pay the money back. The Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) defended its party member on Thursday but Little-Pengelly had not directly addressed the criticism until a post on social media site X late on Friday night. Allow X content? This article contains content provided by X. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read X’s cookie policy and privacy policy before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’. Accept and continue In the post, she said in her role she has the "huge privilege" of being invited to attend events of national significance. She said she was there in her official capacity as deputy first minister: "I count it as a huge honour to have been invited as DfM to attend the Royal Box at Wimbledon at the invitation of the chair of the club." "The organisers invite a mix of political, government, investors, business along with the world of sport and entertainment, and of course royalty, as part of the official aspect of the tournament in the Royal Box," she wrote. "It is hugely positive that Northern Ireland is invited to be represented at this significant UK British national sporting event, of huge global impact. "I will always be the biggest champion of this wonderful place of Northern Ireland. I will always do my best to promote us at every opportunity and it is the biggest honour of my life to ensure our voice is heard." She said that while "some will criticise, some will try and attack", it will not "stop my positivity and championing" of Northern Ireland. Earlier on Friday, Alliance's deputy leader Eoin Tennyson told the Irish News that Little-Pengelly should pay back the £980 of public funding that went towards the trip. He described it as a "jolly to Wimbledon on the taxpayers' dime". "It's easy to see why the DUP is clearly unable to explain or justify why the public should be picking up the nearly £1,000 tab. "The only decent thing to do, at this point, would be for the deputy first minister to pay the money back." His criticism echoed those of other parties earlier this week, including the Social Democratic and Labour Party's (SDLP's) Matthew O'Toole who said the spending "beggars belief" and Traditional Unionist Voice (TUV) assembly member Timothy Gaston who questioned the "justification for the public paying the bill". What's the background to the Wimbledon trip row? The criticism began when the deputy first minister and her husband Mr Pengelly were pictured at centre court's Royal Box alongside celebrities including American pop star Olivia Rodrigo, professional wrestler John Cena and former England football manager Roy Hodgson. A Freedom of Information request by the Irish News revealed that more than £980 was spent on the trip. In the face of the criticism, the DUP said on Thursday the invitation was issued "in her capacity as deputy first minister and will be registered in the normal way". Both the deputy first minister and First Minister Michelle O'Neill were invited to Wimbledon, but O'Neill did not take up the invitation. The Executive Office (TEO) said O'Neill did attend the All-Ireland Football semi-final between Tyrone and Kerry later in July but there were "no costs" associated with that trip. On the deputy first minister's trip to Wimbledon, the Executive Office said details of gifts and hospitality received by ministers are recorded on the 'Register of Ministers' Gifts and Hospitality Received'. It previously said that the deputy first minister "flew economy" and that while she was accompanied by her husband, there was "no additional expenditure" incurred by the TEO on his behalf. It also said the travel and accommodation costs were "in line with NICS (Northern Ireland Civil Service) policy". The Education Authority said "no spend was incurred" by it and the trip was "made in a personal capacity" while Mr Pengelly was on annual leave. Northern Ireland Northern Ireland Assembly DUP (Democratic Unionist Party) Emma Little Pengelly Related What it means to be 'culturally' Irish in 2025 is complicated - as Ed Sheeran has shown Dog foul fines top £50k as DNA database explored Woman wearing Palestine Action T-shirt arrested More from the BBC 3 days ago DUP defends deputy first minister's Wimbledon trip Almost £1,000 was spent on flights and accommodation when Emma Little-Pengelly and her husband attended the tournament. 3 days ago 6 days ago Stormont's performance is 'sub-optimal', says new MLA Jon Burrows is replacing Colin Crawford, who stepped down after less than a year as North Antrim MLA. 6 days ago 29 Jul 2025 Former senior PSNI officer to become UUP MLA He is replacing North Antrim MLA Colin Crawford, who is stepping down after less than a year in the role. 29 Jul 2025 24 Jul 2025 Investigation into replacement of top civil servant Mark Browne held the role of permanent secretary for a number of years, including a period when the executive had collapsed. 24 Jul 2025 23 Jul 2025 Head of NI Civil Service warned over Belfast Pride involvement Some Stormont parties have questioned NI Civil Service participation over impartiality concerns. 23 Jul 2025