The Best Outdoor Rugs To Upgrade Your Patio, Deck Or Porch
Mattress & Sleep Home Fashion Kids & Baby Gear Gear Beauty & Grooming Tech & Electronics Travel Gifts Deals Coupons Edit Story Forbes writers and editors independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission. Learn more Forbes Vetted Home Outdoor The Best Outdoor Rugs To Upgrade Your Patio, Deck Or Porch ByMonica Petrucci, Commerce Writer, Home & Mattress I have years of experience testing top home and kitchen products. Aug 8, 2025,09:09pm EDT Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Linkedin The best outdoor rugs are both practical and stylish, enhancing your outdoor space while offering comfort and heat protection. Finding the right one can be daunting, as you need to consider style, durability and comfort all at once. In 2025, our top pick is Frontgate’s Britta Indoor/Outdoor Rug, which features UV protection and stain resistance that’s designed to last for many al fresco dinners to come. The best outdoor rugs are both attractive and functional, able to remain durable despite outdoor ... More exposure.ILLUSTRATION: FORBES / PHOTO: RETAILERS “Outdoor rugs can inject color, pattern and texture, which can elevate the aesthetic and vibe,” says Jennifer Jones, principal designer at Niche Interiors. “It also shields hardscape from overheating in direct sunlight and as a result, it can protect bare feet during hot weather months.” Read on for our top picks of the best outdoor rugs to elevate your backyard in 2025. Our Top Recommendations Best Outdoor Rug Overall: Frontgate Britta Indoor/Outdoor Rug Best Value Outdoor Rug: Nourison Aloha Indoor/Outdoor Area Rug Best Durable Outdoor Rug: Leja Flatwoven Natural Green Indoor-Outdoor Area Rug Best Washable Outdoor Rug: Ruggable Outdoor Olena Jade Rug Best Outdoor Rug For Concrete Patios: Pottery Barn Outdoor Performance Rug Best Outdoor Rug For Decks: Dash and Albert Rugs Diamond Flatweave Geometric Rug Best Outdoor Rug For Porches: Serena & Lily Shasta Rug Best Outdoor Rug Overall Attractive, Durable And Easy To Clean Frontgate Frontgate Britta Indoor/Outdoor RugShop At Frontgate Sizes: 5.3 x 7.6 feet, 8 x 10 feet | Material: 100% polypropylene | Thickness: 0.25-inch | UV-resistant: Yes | Care: Vacuum regularly; hose clean as needed | Colors: 3 options available Pros: Made from durable fabric UV-resistant Easy upkeep Cons: Only three colors and two sizes to choose from This eye-catching outdoor rug is crafted from durable polypropylene, a material Jones recommends for its longevity, especially in outdoor settings. The fabric is UV-resistant and colorfast, ensuring the bright colors stay vibrant even when exposed to the elements. Upkeep is easy with this rug, too: Regular vacuuming and hosing it down to air dry as needed is all it takes (no professional cleaning required). Owners rave about the rug’s comfortable texture and its durability, as well as its ability to elevate any space, indoors or out. The downside: It’s available in just three colorways and two size options, which may not suit every outdoor space’s aesthetic. Best Value Outdoor Rug Eye-Catching Print To Elevate Your Space Amazon Nourison Aloha Indoor/Outdoor Area RugShop At Amazon Sizes: 23 options | Material: Polypropylene | Thickness: 0.25-inch | UV-resistant: No | Care: Hose clean as needed | Colors: 16 options available Pros: Wide variety of color options Hose wash and air dry Comfortable texture Cons: Recommended to be brought inside during extreme weather Adding color and texture to your outdoor space doesn’t have to be costly. This Nourison area rug is made from durable polypropylene, making it easy to hose down and air dry for regular cleaning. The soft cut pile over a flat-weave creates a cozy feel and adds texture to any space. With a wide variety of colors and sizes from classic black and white to vibrant multicolor options, this rug complements any indoor or outdoor setting. Owners rave about its ability to transform both bedrooms and patios. Note that, though designed for outdoor use, the rug is not UV-resistant. The brand recommends bringing it indoors during extreme weather to prolong its lifespan. Best Durable Outdoor Rug Designed To Withstand All Weather, Rain Or Shine Wayfair Leja Flatwoven Natural Green Indoor-Outdoor Area RugShop At Wayfair Sizes: 2 feet x 3 feet 7 inches, 7 feet six 6 inches x 10 feet 9 inches, round 7 feet 6 inches| Material: Polypropylene | Thickness: Not listed | UV-resistant: Yes | Care: Vacuum/sweep regularly; hose clean as needed | Colors: 5 options available Pros: Water-resistant material Round and rectangle size options Easy to clean Cons: Relatively thin If you live in a particularly wet climate and don’t want to constantly move your rug in and out of the house, the Leja Flatwoven Outdoor Rug is a great choice. Made from 100% fiber-enhanced Courtron polypropylene, it resists water, mold and mildew. It’s also UV-resistant, making it ideal for both sunny and shaded outdoor areas. Available in both round and rectangular options of various sizes, the rug comes in a range of attractive, neutral colors to complement any space. Reviewers praise its durability against harsh outdoor elements and its easy maintenance. However, some note its thin build and recommend using a pad underneath for added comfort. Best Washable Outdoor Rug Machine Washable For Fuss-Free Upkeep Ruggable Ruggable Outdoor Olena Jade RugShop At Ruggable Sizes: 5 options | Material: Polyester with a polyurethane water-resistant barrier | Thickness: 0.125-inch | UV-resistant: Yes | Care: Sweep, hose clean or machine wash | Colors: Charcoal, sage Pros: Machine washable Stylish design Nonslip grip underneath Cons: Few style options If you don’t want to haul out your hose every time it’s time to clean your outdoor rug, consider a washable option from Ruggable. This rug features a modern, eye-catching design available in two colors and five sizes. Made from recycled polyester with a polyurethane barrier, it resists mold, mildew and other weather-related issues. It also has a nonslip grip at the bottom to keep it in place and protect the floor underneath. (Though suited for indoor use as well, the brand recommends layering it on a rug pad indoors.) This rug is also machine-washable, like Ruggable’s other flagship offerings. The brand suggests washing it on a cold water cycle and laying it flat to air dry. Best Outdoor Rug For Concrete Patios Stylish, Timeless Design To Elevate Your Space Pottery Barn Pottery Barn Outdoor Performance RugShop At Pottery Barn Sizes: 2 x 3 feet, 5 x 8 feet, 8 x 10 feet, 9 x 12 feet, 10 x 14 feet | Material: 100% polyester | Thickness: 0.5-inch | UV-resistant: No | Care: Vacuum regularly; professional cleaning as needed | Colors: 4 options available Pros: Thick, comfortable material Made from recycled materials Classic, attractive design Cons: Not recommended in areas prone to excessive moisture Concrete patios often benefit from a plush, thicker-than-average outdoor rug that adds a more homey feel to the space. This Pottery Barn rug features a soft fabric, thicker than most outdoor rugs at half an inch thick. Made from recycled polyester (a material Jones recommends for outdoor rugs), it’s sourced from up to 1,260 single-use plastic bottles, making it both durable and sustainable. The rug also has an elevated look, available in four neutral shades that complement virtually any patio furniture. The only downsides are the brand's advice to keep it away from excessive moisture, and the recommendation for professional cleaning to maintain its longevity. Best Outdoor Rug For Decks Quick-Drying And UV-Resistant Wayfair Dash and Albert Rugs Diamond Flatweave Geometric Rug Shop At Wayfair Sizes: 12 options | Material: Polypropylene | Thickness: 0.25-inch | UV-resistant: Yes | Care: Vacuum regularly; hose clean or bleach as needed | Colors: 9 options available Pros: Resistant to UV rays and weather Dries quickly Variety of colors to choose from Cons: Fabric prone to pulling If you’re looking to spruce up your deck, it’s important to choose an outdoor rug that dries quickly and won’t fade from sun exposure. This rug checks both boxes with its UV-treated polypropylene fabric, which is water-resistant and quick-drying. The brand highlights it as a great fit for uncovered decks and poolside patios due to its durability, even in wet and sun-soaked conditions. The rug also offers several attractive design options, available in both solid colors and patterns to suit a variety of aesthetics. It comes in 12 size options, perfect for anything from small front porches to large patios. Owners praise its soft feel, easy maintenance and ability to withstand various weather conditions. However, some have reported that the fabric may start to pull apart over time. Best Outdoor Rug For Porches Plush Feel For Covered Areas Serena & Lily Serena & Lily Shasta RugShop At Serena & Lily Sizes: 7 options | Material: Recycled polyester | Thickness: 0.5-inch | UV-resistant: No | Care: Vacuum regularly; hose clean as needed | Colors: Coastal blue, natural Pros: Stylish design Plush feeling underfoot Stain resistant Cons: Requires covered, protected area With the luxury of a covered porch, you can opt for a more plush, stylish outdoor rug, as it won’t be directly exposed to sunlight or wet weather. This rug features a soft texture from high-pile handwoven polyester fibers, offering a luxe feel underfoot. The diamond-shaped pattern is available in two colors and several size options to complement a variety of covered outdoor spaces. However, keep in mind that this rug isn’t designed to be as durable as others on this list. The brand recommends placing it in a covered area with minimal foot or pet traffic to prevent snagging. It’s also advised to bring it indoors during inclement weather. Regular cleaning is easy with a simple hose-down. RECOMMENDED BYFORBES VETTED The 6 Best Bamboo Sheets Sets To Keep You Cool As Temperatures RiseBy McKenzie Dillon The 9 Best Outdoor Sectionals Of 2025 To Anchor Your Open-Air Living RoomBy Kelly O'Sullivan Why Trust Forbes Vetted The home team at Forbes Vetted is dedicated to providing the very best recommendations for your home. We’ve extensively tested and reviewed a myriad of outdoor products, from outdoor sectionals to patio umbrellas. Monica Petrucci is the author of this article and a commerce writer covering home topics at Forbes Vetted. She has tested and reviewed hundreds of products over the years, from pressure washers to flat-top grills. We interviewed Jennifer Jones for this article, founder and principal designer at Niche Interiors. Jones provided insight on the benefit of outdoor rugs, how to take care of them and which materials to prioritize for longevity. The Forbes Vetted team is committed to providing only the most relevant information to our readers, performing regular article updates as needed. This article was last updated in August 2025. How We Chose The Best Outdoor Rugs We evaluated several of the top picks at popular retailers, comparing design elements, specs and customization options to deliver a comprehensive list of the best outdoor rugs. We took expert recommendations from Jones to help shape our decision-making process, prioritizing rugs made from her recommended materials and with tighter woven fabric. A great outdoor rug is defined by its durability, so we looked for features like UV-resistant and mold-resistant finishes in order to recommend rugs designed to maintain their structure—both in rain and shine. We scoured through consumer reviews, looking out for any common issues reported over months and years, and making note of minor issues that consumers should consider. We took owner feedback into account, including rugs only with a 4.5-star rating or higher. What To Look For In The Best Outdoor Rugs Investing in an outdoor rug to transform your patio or deck aesthetic is a big decision. Luckily, there are some key features to keep in mind to help you make the right choice. Materials Jones recommends opting for a synthetic fiber when shopping for an outdoor rug, like polypropylene, polyester and nylon. “These materials can endure the elements better than natural materials, and [they can] sometimes be bleached for ease of cleaning and disinfecting,” she says. Also, look to see how the colors of the rug are designed. “If the color or design of a rug is silk-screened or printed on top of the fibers, you can expect that ink to erode with time,” Jones says. “Synthetic fibers have the color built into the yarns which helps increase color fastness.” Construction Consider both your comfort preference and your outdoor space’s exposure to the elements when deciding on outdoor rug constructions. Flat-weaves are known for being quick-drying and more resistant to wear-and-tear from outdoor elements, but they’re less comfortable to walk on. Low- or high-pile rugs, on the other hand, provide that plush comfort, but are better suited to covered areas. Jones also recommends looking for tighter woven fabrics over open weaves, saying “Loose woven rugs can easily fray and come apart.” You should also consider the edges and backing of the rug, as those that are tightly made could prevent fraying over time. Size Most outdoor rugs are available in a wide range of size options. Consider your outdoor area and make sure to leave some open space around the rug for the best layout. Also consider shape here—round rugs look great on square patios, and vice versa. Care And Upkeep Most outdoor rugs can be hosed down and air dried for regular cleaning and upkeep. But some are even easier to clean, thanks to machine washable properties, while others require professional cleaning. Make sure to read through manufacturer instructions and consider how much work you’re willing to put in to keep your outdoor rug clean. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What Type Of Outdoor Rug Is Best? It’s important to look at an outdoor rug’s material to gauge its quality and longevity. “Synthetic fibers like polypropylene, polyester or nylon are great materials for outdoor rugs because the color fastness is extruded into the fibers, they are water-resistant and quick drying,” Jones says. Can Outdoor Rugs Be Left Outside In The Rain? According to Jones, you can temporarily leave an outdoor rug in the rain. “But after prolong exposure to heavy rain or standing water, water can get trapped underneath and mold/mildew can form,” she says. “This can lead to discoloration and odors on the rug as well as damage to the flooring underneath.” Some outdoor rugs are designed to be more resistant to water than others, to be sure to read through manufacturer directions. Do You Need A Pad Under An Outdoor Rug? Yes, in most cases it’s recommended to layer an outdoor rug on a pad in order to keep it in place and avoid damage to the floor underneath. Some outdoor rugs have pads built-in, so make sure to read through instructions ahead of time. Coupons Safelite Get 15% Off Sitewide Use By August 9, 2025 Explore Safelite Coupon Squarespace Take 20% Off Any New Website Plan Use By August 9, 2025 Explore Squarespace Coupon Kohl's Get An Extra 30% Off With A Kohl’s Card Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Kohl's Take An Extra 20% Off In Store And Online Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Kohl's Get 25% Off Select Backpacks And Lunch Boxes Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Send me a secure tip. Monica Petrucci Following Editorial Standards Reprints & Permissions