Today’s Wordle #1512 Hints And Answer For Saturday, August 9th
Innovation Gaming Today’s Wordle #1512 Hints And Answer For Saturday, August 9th ByErik Kain, Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about TV shows, movies, video games, entertainment & culture. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 07:30pm EDTAug 09, 2025, 04:47pm EDT Share Save Comment How to solve today's Wordle. SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images Looking for Friday’s Wordle hints, clues and answer? You can find them here: ForbesToday’s Wordle #1511 Hints And Answer For Friday, August 8thBy Erik Kain How To Solve Today’s Wordle The weekend is finally here—praise the sun!—and it’s time for another Wordle. A Wordle a day keeps the doctor away, or so I’m told. If you’re looking for something to do after your puzzle-solving, be sure to check out my weekend streaming guide for all the latest and greatest in TV shows and movies. Lots of very cool stuff out recently. I link to some of my recent reviews as well. Okay, let’s solve this Wordle! Play Puzzles & Games on Forbes FEATURED | Frase ByForbes™ Unscramble The Anagram To Reveal The Phrase Play Now Pinpoint By Linkedin Guess The Category Play Now Queens By Linkedin Crown Each Region Play Now Crossclimb By Linkedin Unlock A Trivia Ladder Play Now How To Play Wordle Wordle is a daily word puzzle game where your goal is to guess a hidden five-letter word in six tries or fewer. After each guess, the game gives feedback to help you get closer to the answer: Green: The letter is in the word and in the correct spot. Yellow: The letter is in the word, but in the wrong spot. Gray: The letter is not in the word at all. Use these clues to narrow down your guesses. Every day brings a new word, and everyone around the world is trying to solve the same puzzle. Some Wordlers also play Competitive Wordle against friends, family, the Wordle Bot or even against me, your humble narrator. See rules for Competitive Wordle toward the end of this post. Today’s Wordle Hints And Answer Wordle Bot’s Starting Word: SLATE My Starting Word Today: BRACE (235 words remaining) The Hint: Leading with your nose, vocally speaking. The Clue: There’s a double letter in this Wordle. Okay, spoilers below! The answer is coming! . . . The Answer: Today's Wordle Screenshot: Erik Kain Wordle Analysis Every day I check Wordle Bot to help analyze my guessing game. You can check your Wordles with Wordle Bot right here. BRACE just popped into my head and I plugged it in as my first guess. Kind of underwhelming results. ADIOS slashed the 235 remaining words down to 24, though Wordle Bot kindly informed me after that NATAL would have been more efficient. No kidding? SALTY left me with just one possible solution: NASAL for the win. Competitive Wordle Score Today's Wordle Bot Screenshot: Erik Kain I get 0 points for guessing in four and -1 for losing to the Bot. The Bot gets 1 point for guessing in three and 1 for beating me. Our new August totals are now: Erik: 3 points Wordle Bot: 2 points How To Play Competitive Wordle Guessing in 1 is worth 3 points; guessing in 2 is worth 2 points; guessing in 3 is worth 1 point; guessing in 4 is worth 0 points; guessing in 5 is -1 points; guessing in 6 is -2 points and missing the Wordle is -3 points. If you beat your opponent you get 1 point. If you tie, you get 0 points. And if you lose to your opponent, you get -1 point. Add it up to get your score. Keep a daily running score or just play for a new score each day. Fridays are 2XP, meaning you double your points—positive or negative. You can keep a running tally or just play day-by-day. Enjoy! Today’s Wordle Etymology The word "nasal" comes from the Latin word nāsus, meaning "nose." It entered English via Middle French nasal, which also derived from the Latin root. The suffix -al means "pertaining to," so nasal literally means "pertaining to the nose." Be sure to follow me for all your daily puzzle-solving guides, TV show and movie reviews and more here on this blog! Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video