Inside Look Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel Review
Forbes Vetted Travel Hotels & Lodging Inside Look: Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel Review Beach club and exterior of Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel in Cannes, France. Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel Aug 08, 2025, 07:12pm EDT Share Save All products and services featured are independently selected by Forbes Vetted contributors and editors. When you make a purchase through links on this page, we may earn a commission. Learn more Astrid Taran, Forbes Staff Forbes Vetted Best known as the host city of the eponymous film festival, the French Riviera town of Cannes has long been on my bucket list as a former film student and lifelong fan of the big screen. After learning that the historic Carlton Cannes completed a multi-million dollar redevelopment and became the flagship property of the Regent Hotels group, I knew a visit was inevitable. The historic neoclassical hotel, perched right on the beach, first opened in 1911 and has been the site of many major events, including the first League of Nations conference as well as the inaugural Cannes Film Festival. On a spring trip to the south of France, I finally checked in to experience its modern-yet-classic new look firsthand. Read my full review below. divider Porch at the Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel. Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel Reserve At Booking.com Who Will Love It: History buffs; film lovers; those who appreciate Old World glamour All-Star Amenities: Cannes’ largest infinity pool; private beach; spa; fitness center; Dyson hair tools; five restaurants; three bars; pet-friendly perks, like embossed water bowls and organic treats What Not To Miss: The Belle Époque architecture Location: Cannes, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, France divider All-Star Amenities My first introduction to the Carlton Cannes was in Alfred Hitchcock’s To Catch A Thief, which was filmed at the property and features a famous scene where Cary Grant and Grace Kelly watch fireworks from her hotel room. That same feeling of movie magic was still present as my taxi neared the hotel, and I was greeted by its white and yellow striped awnings, resembling an opulent wedding cake. As I stepped inside, I took a moment to admire the grand staircase, pink Venini chandeliers, frescoed domes and marble stucco columns of the Belle Époque building. Female lobby attendants sport Grace Kelly-inspired uniforms—cerulean pleated skirts and beige jackets. Pool and cabanas at the Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel. Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel Located right along Cannes’ Boulevard de la Croisette, the property is walking distance to a wide array of shops and restaurants right on the beach. The hotel is also home to its own private beach club, the Carlton Beach Club, as well as an outdoor infinity swimming pool located on an elevated platform with cabanas and loungers. After checking in, one of my first stops was to the property’s compact Le C Club Spa, where I booked a facial featuring Dr. Barbara Sturm skincare. Le C Club is also home to a fitness center that is kitted out with Panatta machines and offers personalized classes in yoga, weight training and more. divider Rooms With 332 rooms and suites, many overlooking the beach, I was most looking forward to waking up to views of the Mediterranean Sea—and I wasn’t disappointed. I stayed in a One Bedroom Sea View suite, which featured a separate living area and bedroom drenched in an elegant palette of cream, black and gold. I had a panoramic view of the Bay of Cannes that I was able to enjoy from both the antique-style fainting couch in my room and a desk in the main living room. Take note, though, that only 72 of the property’s rooms have sea views, so make sure to double check your room type before booking. One Bedroom Sea View Suite at the Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel. Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel At about 870 square feet, the area was spacious, and I could easily picture coming home to a living space like this at the end of each day. The marble-topped bathroom featured Dyson hair tools and Byredo toiletries, while the bedroom and living area’s French windows opened up onto the Croisette below. While the streets outside were lined with locals and tourists shopping and taking photos (many in front of the hotel itself), I felt no disturbance by the central location; the only sounds I heard before drifting off to sleep each night were the Mediterranean’s crashing waves. divider Food And Beverage The hotel is home to several restaurants, including the main Riviera Restaurant, which offers a Mediterranean menu and brasserie favorites, Ruya Restaurant for Anatolian—or Turkish—cuisine, Bar 58, the Camelia Tea Lounge, and the seafront Carlton Beach Club. My stay began with lunch at the scenic Carlton Beach Club, where I enjoyed a seafood salad, with, of course, a glass of rosé. After freshening up (and taking plenty of photos), I then journeyed down to the tea lounge, where I enjoyed live music and some of the most intricately designed sweets I’ve ever seen. Riviera Restaurant at the Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel. Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel My favorite dining outlet was Riviera, which felt like stepping back in time to the 1960s, with its impeccable, white-glove service, emerald chairs and floor-to-ceiling windows. I ordered the sole meunière, a classic Provençal dish comprised of a fried fish topped in butter, lemon and parsley. It was brought out whole and served tableside, where swiftly deboned with the flash of a hand. Breakfast was also served at Riviera, with extensive options that included a la carte options as well as a buffet with charcuterie, cheese, fresh fruit, and a wide array of French pastries. divider What Not To Miss Film buffs might want to check out the hotel’s Alfred Hitchcock Suite, the previously mentioned room where Grace Kelly and Cary Grant had their iconic kiss in front of the fireworks. For those who want to explore the boulevard below, there are no shortage of shops and cafés to linger in, but the city’s scenic Old Quarter, known as Le Suquet, is worth a visit for its charming cobblestone streets and many photo opportunities (it’s about a ten-minute drive or a twenty-minute walk from the hotel). During my stay, I also strolled to the Gambetta district, where I visited the mural of French actor Jean-Paul Belmondo, who most famously starred in Jean-Luc Godard’s 1960 film Breathless. divider How To Get There Carlton Cannes, A Regent Hotel is located a 30-minute drive from the Nice Côte d'Azur Airport (NCE). Got a tip? Share confidential information with Forbes. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions