WWE SmackDown Live Results, Winners And Grades On August 8, 2025
Business SportsMoney WWE SmackDown Live Results, Winners And Grades On August 8, 2025 ByAlfred Konuwa, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about men in tights & the billions they make for men in suits. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 07:00pm EDTAug 08, 2025, 10:08pm EDT Share Save Comment John Cena's first SmackDown since Brock Lesnar's return. WWE WWE SmackDown from Montreal-Quebec, Canada advertised John Cena’s first appearance since losing the WWE Championship at SummerSlam 2025. This is also Cena’s first appearance since the shocking return of Brock Lesnar, who laid out Cena after a hard-fought battle during an superb WWE Championship match against Cody Rhodes. WWE SmackDown Match Card John Cena appears live after Brock Lesnar’s surprise return Talla Tonga and JC Mateo def. Motor City Machine Guns Sami Zayn def. Solo Sikoa Charlotte Flair def. Chelsea Green John Cena and Cody Rhodes def. Logan Paul and Drew McIntyre by DQ WWE SmackDown Ratings And Viewership August 1, 2025 | 1.544 million July 25, 2025 | 1.707 million July 18, 2025 | 1.546 million July 11, 2025 | 1.399 million July 4, 2025 | 1.166 million WWE SmackDown Ticket Sales WWE SmackDown Venue: Bell Centre (Montreal, QC) WWE SmackDown Tickets Distributed: 12,964 WWE SmackDown Tickets Available: 493 When Does WWE SmackDown Start? How To Watch WWE SmackDown Date: Friday, August 8, 2025 WWE SmackDown Start Time: 5:00 pm PST (8:00 pm EST) Where to Watch/Stream WWE SmackDown: USA Network WWE SmackDown Live Results And Highlights On 8/8/25 MORE FOR YOU After WWE showed highlights of the main event of SummerSlam, Night 2, including Brock Lesnar’s return. The show then cut to the Bell Centre in Montreal as the crowd was cheering and clapping. No backlash to speak of. Cena made his babyface entrance as fans went crazy for him. Not one single “John Cena Sucks” chant. Instead, Montreal chanted his name throughout his entrance. John Cena opened with a promo about how WWE used to be scared to come to Montreal, indirectly referring to the Montreal Screwjob. Cena said WWE was afraid fans would hijack the show, but in reality, fans are the show. Fans broke into a “Thank you Cena” chant. Cena said he’s shared many valuable moments in this ring and thanked the fans right back. John Cena said he has 11 dates left after tonight as a sad hush came over the crowd. As far as being afraid, every time a day goes by he gets more and more afraid. Cena said that he’s afraid that he’ll never be enough, and he’s just going to end up letting fans down. He was afraid fans were going to forget about him. ("No" chants.) Cena then said he was afraid of Brock Lesnar. Cena said there is no universe in which he ever backs down from Brock Lesnar. He then said to anyone who wants to face off with the last real champion, he plans on going down guns blazing. “If you want some, come get some!” Logan Paul answered Cena’s informal challenge to a chorus of boos. Paul said this version of John Cena is making him sick. “Montreal, what are you whining about? At least Logan Paul never switched up!” Montreal chanted “F-U Logan.” Paul was booed. Paul challenged Cena to a match as Montreal popped for it. As Paul hemmed and hawed about accepting the challenge, Drew McIntyre attacked Cena out of nowhere. Cody Rhodes made the save as Cena and Rhodes cleared the ring. Cena accepted Paul’s challenge at Clash in Paris. Cena then challenged the two heels to a tag team match alongside Cody Rhodes. John Cena’s Opening Segment Grade: B Talla Tonga And JC Mateo Def. Motor City Machine Guns MCMG got off to a quick start with their signature high-flying offense, punctuated by a between-the-legs Chris Sabin dive onto JC Mateo. Fans booed as Talla Tonga singlehandedly took control of the match, exploiting Alex Shelley’s taped ribs. SmackDown came back from commercial break just in time for a wild Sabin comeback that ended with a springboard tornado DDT. Wade Barrett talked up how much pain the team was in after a brutal TLC match on Sunday. Talla Tonga was done playing around, tagged in, hit a big boot and a chokeslam on Chris Sabin. After the match, Solo Sikoa got on the mic and told Montreal that they are looking at the future WWE tag team champions. The current US champion said he’s dressed to fight, but there is nobody to fight him. Sikoa was interrupted by SmackDown GM Nick Aldis. Aldis had a special guest who is also ready for a fight: Sami Zayn. MFTs vs. MCMG Grade: B- Sami Zayn Def. Solo Sikoa The crowd was on their feet cheering for Sami throughout his entrance. When the bell ring, they chanted “Ole.” This was followed by “Sami” chants. Sikoa worked over Zayn, even slamming him with the Spinning Solo for a nearfall. Solo Sikoa teased a Samoan spike, but Zayn blocked it with a boot and followed up with an Exploder Suplex into the corner. Zayn attempted the running boot but Tonga Loa distracted him. Sami’s got another chance. The MFTs distracted the ref, leading to a superkick from Solo and a Samoan Spike attempt. Zayn rolled up Sikoa for the win in the non-title match. Shout out to Pat Patterson. Sami Zayn vs. Solo Sikoa Grade: B Charlotte Flair Def. Chelsea Green WWE aired an ESPN promo, followed by a Wyatts promo after they retained the Tag Team Titles at SummerSlam. Before returning to the arena, there was a confrontation between the Street Profits and #DIY, who called Montez Ford and Angelo Dawkins “Mother killers” after Candice LeRae fell through a table. It’s Alexa Bliss’ birthday, and Charlotte Flair got Lexi a birthday cake gift. The cake had Charlotte’s name on it in big letters, and Alexa’s name was in small letters. After a little poking and prodding, Charlotte opened the gift for Alexa to reveal Lily the doll. Lilly was wearing a “We’re not friends” t-shirt to a huge pop. Flair revealed Charlie the doll, which received “Charlie” chants. Bliss and Flair hugged at the request of Flair and the Bell Centre. “You may hug the queen, Lexi.” Before they could complete the hug, they were interrupted by Canada’s Sweetheart Chelsea Green. Green took a shot at the Maple Leafs for easy heat. Flair’s final gift for Bliss is Flair kicking Green’s ass tonight. A wild Aldis appeared and made the match official, brand new referee and all. Flair started the match dominating Green, whom Joe Tessitore called the Northland Nuisance. With the friendship dolls sitting next to each other on the steel steps, Flair hit a cross body dive from the top ropes on Flair. The Secret Hervice distracted Charlotte, allowing Green to take control of the match. After another commercial break, Flair chopped Chelsea time and again as fans wooed their heads off. Flair hit a walkover clothesline on Green, but Green battled back when Flair scaled the ropes. A superplex by Green only amounted to a two count. Green barked orders at the Secret Hervice, who grabbed the sheet cake. You already know where this is going. Piper pushed Alba Fyer into the ring while Fyre held the cake. Flair countered an Unpretty-Her as Chelsea landed face-first on the cake. Green tapped out to the Figure 4 as Charlotte won. Charlotte Flair vs. Chelsea Green Grade: B John Cena And Cody Rhodes Def. Logan Paul And Drew McIntyre By DQ Backstage, John Cena ran into R-Truth. After they did a mime actout, implying they were looking in a mirror, R-Truth celebrated that Cena was back. That means R-Truth is back. Cena blamed Truth for turning heel and “acting weird” over the past five months. Cena even blamed Truth for making that kid in Brussels cry. It was a heartwarming segment, but also seemed like closure to R-Truth’s serious push. The crowd was all over Logan Paul, once again chanting “F-U Logan,” which once again had to be bleeped out. The match built to a hot tag tonight Cena as the heels smothered Cody. One last tag to Cena in Montreal led to a wild comeback until Paul hit Cena with a low blow for the DQ. After the match, Drew McIntyre destroyed Cody with a Claymore Kick through the wooden announce desk. The announcers put it over huge, like Cody was seriously injured. This is obviously Rhodes’ first program as two-time WWE champion. WWE SmackDown Main Event Grade: C+ Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video