Jaron ‘Boots’ Ennis Has One Real Option To Silence His Critics
Innovation Gaming Jaron ‘Boots’ Ennis Has One Real Option To Silence His Critics ByBrian Mazique, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Brian Mazique has covered combat sports and video games since 2011. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 06:42pm EDT Share Save Comment PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA - NOVEMBER 6: Jaron Ennis poses for photos during Media Day ahead of the IBF welterweight title bout against Karen Chukhadzhian on November 6, 2024 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (Photo by Mark Robinson/Matchroom Boxing/Getty Images) Getty Images Jaron “Boots” Ennis is a legit world champion at 147 pounds and he’d be a true player at 154 pounds whenever he decides to move up. Still, it sometimes seems Boots is the most disrespected champion in the sport today. If Boots wants to break through into the upper echelon of champions—at least in the minds of the masses—he’s got to do two things: fight Vergil Ortiz Jr. and beat him. Ennis, 28, is 34-0 with 30 KOs and fights the style that most fans claim to love, but still he seems to struggle with overall approval. That should tell fighters that you can’t fight to please the fans. It’s a never-ending journey. PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA - NOVEMBER 07: Jaron 'Boots' Ennis during a Press Conference ahead of the Matchroom Event on Saturday night at 2300 Arena on November 7, 2024 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (Photo by Mark Robinson/Matchroom Boxing/Getty Images) Getty Images Fans often want to see the biggest names fight other big names. However, boxing is a business and a sport. Fighters must play the long game as much as possible, even when it’s not what the fans want to see. If Ennis moves up too quickly and has a bad outing against a top fighter at 154, fans and critics will not hesitate to tear him apart. It’ll be even worse than it is now with him taking a tune-up. That said, there is bad press on Boots supposedly backing out of the fight with Ortiz earlier this year. That concept supports the narrative, though it may not tell the entire story. I asked Boots about the situation earlier this year ahead of his KO win over Eimantas Stanionis and he declined to expound, which also didn’t help public perception. As it is, Ennis is getting called out by boxing pundits, fighter advisors, and others who openly question his willingness to fight Ortiz and other top competition. Boxing advisor Rick Glaser took to X to slam Boots, and boxing X account According to Boxing co-signed the post. Glaser, an outspoken and tenured member of the boxing community, is never one to pull punches with his posts. They’re often aggressive and without restraint. In this instance, there are others who share his opinion. Popular boxing personality Showbiz The Adult posted a video calling Boots out for “ducking” Ortiz. They’re not alone. Many are lamenting Ennis’ decision to take a tune-up fight in October to ease his way into 154 pounds rather than diving into the deep end with the division’s sharks. Ennis is currently ranked No. 2 by the WBA at 154 pounds despite never having fought at the weight. The WBA is known for its creative ranking history, but few doubt Boots being one of the top 154-pounders when he makes his arrival, so this one flies more smoothly under the radar. There’s been a ton of fighters who currently reign and who have been champion in recent years who haven’t been held to such a no-nonsense standard when it comes to fight opposition. For whatever reason, Boots has taken tons of shots and endured critics calling him a duck. Hopefully, this is coming to an end soon. According to Boots’ promoter, Matchroom’s Eddie Hearn, the fight with Ortiz Jr. is already signed. It’ll take place in January or February of 2026, Hearn says. Beating a fighter like Ortiz—who is also a highly touted undefeated KO-style fighter with a large Mexican following—would instantly earn Boots respect. In the meantime, Boots and Ortiz will have stay-busy/tune-up fights in October to move toward the big clash in the early part of 2026. The winner would seemingly be in line for a shot at a title. Perhaps that will be the WBA belt, which is currently held by Terence Crawford, but it seems likely—or at least possible—Bud would vacate that title at some point as he moves toward his mega-fight with Canelo Alvarez at 168 pounds in September. While Crawford is looking to challenge himself two weight classes higher, the 154-pound division is no walk in the park for Boots or anyone else. Aside from Crawford and Ortiz, the division is a minefield packed with impressive young fighters like new WBO champion Xander Zayas, WBC champion Sebastian Fundora, and IBF champion Bakhram Murtazaliev. MORE FOR YOU In any case, Boots can only take one fight at a time, and he must take care of business in October against the unnamed fighter he faces in his 154 tune-up, and then presumably against the hard-punching Ortiz Jr. to begin the year. If he emerges victorious, his critics will have to find something else to criticize. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions