Today’s NYT Strands Puzzle Hints, Spangram And Answers For Saturday, August 9th
Innovation Gaming Today’s NYT Strands Puzzle: Hints, Spangram And Answers For Saturday, August 9th ByErik Kain, Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about TV shows, movies, video games, entertainment & culture. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 06:30pm EDT Share Save Comment Today's NYT Strands hints and answers Credit: New York Times I have returned, dearest Strandistarians! After a couple weeks off, I am back as your humble Strands guide, here to help you string together words on today’s grid. Speaking of which, this one was actually quite tricky compared to a lot of recent Strands puzzles. Even once I had a very solid sense of what the theme was and how to solve this, some of these were quite tricky. If you’re looking for some TV show and movie recommendations, my latest weekend streaming guide is up so give that a look as well, and be sure to follow me here on this blog for more puzzle guides, reviews and more. Thanks for reading! Let’s dive right in . . . . Strands is the newest game in the New York Times’ stable of puzzle games. It’s a fun twist on classic word search games. Every day we’re given a new theme and then tasked with uncovering all the words on the grid that fit that theme, including a spangram that spans two sides of the board. One of these words is the spangram which crosses from one side of the grid to another and reveals even more about the day’s theme. Spoilers ahead. Today’s Strands Hints Read on for today’s theme and some hints to help you uncover today’s words. Today’s Theme: Gastronomic gadgets Play Puzzles & Games on Forbes FEATURED | Frase ByForbes™ Unscramble The Anagram To Reveal The Phrase Play Now Pinpoint By Linkedin Guess The Category Play Now Queens By Linkedin Crown Each Region Play Now Crossclimb By Linkedin Unlock A Trivia Ladder Play Now Hint: Things you use when you’re cooking, baking or making drinks. Clue: These are mostly non-powered gadgets you’ll use with your hands. Here are the first two letters of each word: CO WH MI SI SP ZE Remember, spoilers ahead! What Are Today’s Strands Answers? Today’s spangram is: KITCHENTOOL Here’s the full list of words: CORKSCREW WHISK MIXER SIEVE SPATULA ZESTER Here’s the completed Strands grid: Today's Strands Screenshot: Erik Kain Today’s Strands Breakdown This was a much easier Strands than yesterday’s. Kitchen stuff is easy for me since I spend so much time in the kitchen cooking (and cleaning). It’s also a very clever puzzle. Look at the word CORKSCREW. It’s shaped like a CORKSCREW! I think SPATULA is kind of shaped like a SPATULA also. The rest, not so much. In any case, most of these are pretty easy words, though it did take me awhile to get going. As a bonus, here are the answers for Friday’s Strands, which we did not post a guide for. This one was much tougher: Friday Strands Screenshot: Erik Kain How did you do on your Strands today? Let me know on Twitter and Facebook. Be sure to check out my blog for my daily Wordle guides as well as all my other writing about TV shows, streaming guides, movie reviews, video game coverage and much more. Thanks for stopping by! Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video