Is Community Shield considered a major trophy
Is Community Shield considered a major trophy? Tasnim Chowdhury BBC Sport journalist Published 9 August 2025 The Football Association (FA) says the Community Shield is "incomparable" to any other trophy as fans debate whether it is a major piece of silverware. The one-off competitive fixture is recognised as a domestic 'super cup' by the FA - and a game that "captures the excitement" of the new football season. "It has been highly regarded and supported by the participating clubs and football fans for many years," said an FA spokesperson. A major domestic trophy in England is considered to be the Premier League, FA Cup and the League Cup. For fans, it depends on who you ask, and should their team win it, the trophy could be considered a major achievement. For clubs, it is another chance to add silverware to their trophy cabinet before the new Premier League season starts. The inaugural FA Charity Shield match - which evolved from the Sheriff of London Charity Shield - was held in 1908 at Stamford Bridge. First Division champions Manchester United overcame Southern League champions Queens Park Rangers 4-0 in a replay after a 1-1 draw. United have won the season's curtain-raiser the most times, 21 in total with four of them shared titles, and it was renamed the Community Shield in 2002. Premier League champions Liverpool face FA Cup winners Crystal Palace on Sunday, 10 August at 15:00 BST. What do managers think? Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Crystal Palace are playing in their first Community Shield after winning the FA Cup Liverpool boss Arne Slot welcomed the opportunity to pick up some early silverware in his first Community Shield involvement. "Normally you win something at the end of the season. Now we have a chance to win something at the beginning of the season," he said. That sentiment was echoed by counterpart Oliver Glasner, who will take charge of Crystal Palace's inaugural Community Shield appearance. "It's much better than playing friendlies," he added. "It's a chance to win a trophy and the chance to compete with the champions. "We want to show our personality again. We want to show we are able to compete with every single team. "When you have the chance to win silverware, then go for it, and we will go for it." Chance to impress? For new signings, it is also their first chance to win silverware with their club. New Liverpool striker Hugo Ekitike said the club wants to "win everything", including the Community Shield. "I'm going to give 100% to win because I'm here to win," he told the club website. The match is also a chance for younger players, like Liverpool's 16-year-old Rio Ngumoha, to make an impression in the senior side. Manchester City's Nico O'Reilly made his first-team debut in the club's 2024 Community Shield win - their seventh overall - before going on to make 21 senior appearances, scoring five times. Thank you to Charles in London for the question. This article is the latest from BBC Sport's Ask Me Anything team. Get in touch Send us your questions Contact form Contact form What is Ask Me Anything? Ask Me Anything is a service dedicated to answering your questions. We want to reward your time by telling you things you do not know and reminding you of things you do. The team will find out everything you need to know and be able to call upon a network of contacts including our experts and pundits. We will be answering your questions from the heart of the BBC Sport newsroom, and going behind the scenes at some of the world's biggest sporting events. Our coverage will span the BBC Sport website, app, social media and YouTube accounts, plus BBC TV and radio. More questions answered... Why was the Charity Shield renamed? Who are Premier League clubs playing in pre-season? What's changed in FPL for 25-26? Related topics Liverpool Crystal Palace Football