The 14 Best Treadmill Sales This Week Save Up To 43%
Forbes writers and editors independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission. Learn more Forbes Vetted Deals Gear The 14 Best Treadmill Sales This Week: Save Up To 43% ByJordan Thomas, Asst. Deals Editor andBianca Alvarez Aug 8, 2025,05:56pm EDT WHAT WE UPDATED 2025-08-08 To ensure accuracy, we’ve checked all the deals in this story and removed any that are no longer on sale or have increased in price. After verifying the prices of these deals, we added three new offers and replaced any that were removed. 2025-01-24 We’ve checked all of the deals in this story to ensure they are still active, verified prices and added three new offers to this list. 2025-01-08 We’ve checked all of the existing deals in this story to ensure that they are still active and added five new offers. Fall may be on the horizon, but we still have a couple months of warmer temperatures ahead of us. And if you’re looking to stay active, opting for some home gym equipment might be the solution—especially if your house has air conditioning. Investing in a treadmill makes it easy to sneak more movement in throughout the day without having to brave extreme temperatures (or trek over to the gym). Even better: This week’s best treadmill sales include deals on some of our gear editors’ favorite machines—like $200 off the best treadmill for inclines and 30% off the best compact treadmill. Shop popular models from NordicTrack and Horizon More Fitness during the best treadmill sales in August.LessILLUSTRATION: FORBES / PHOTOS: RETAILER Whether you’re seeking a compact walking pad for your apartment or a fully kitted treadmill for serious training, you’ll find an assortment of high-quality machines at excellent prices right now. Below, we’ve rounded up the 14 best treadmill sales to shop this weekend. RECOMMENDED BYFORBES VETTED Best Sneaker Deals: Save Up To 36% From On, Hoka, Nike And MoreBy Jordan Thomas The 27 Best Deals From REI’s Sale Section—Save Up To 70% NowBy Bianca Alvarez Best Treadmill Sales At A Glance Classic Treadmill Deals NordicTrack T Series 10 Treadmill: Now $1,000, Was $1,300 (23% Off) Sole F80 Treadmill: Now $1,700, Was $2,800 (39% Off) Sunny Health & Fitness Compact Foldable Treadmill: Now $342, Was $500 (32% Off) BowFlex BXT8J Treadmill: Now $1,099, Was $1,299 (15% Off) Horizon Fitness T202 Treadmill: Now $799, Was $1,299 (39% Off) BowFlex 10 Treadmill: Now $1,799, Was $1,999 (10% Off) Sunny Health & Fitness Smart WiFi Treadmill: Now $585, Was $750 (22% Off) Horizon Fitness T101 Connect Treadmill: Now $600, Was $1,000 (40% Off) Walking Pad Deals WalkingPad P1 Folding Treadmill: Now $399, Was $499 (20% Off) Akluer Walking Pad With Incline: Now $112, Was $140 (20% Off) Goplus 2-In-1 Folding Treadmill: Now $240, Was $320 (25% Off) Sunny Health & Fitness Asuna 2-In-1 Treadmill: Now $400, Was $700 (43% Off) Sperax 3-In-1 Folding Treadmill: Now $210, Was $300 (30% Off) Hccsport 3-In-1 Under Desk Treadmill : Now $350, Was $470 (26% Off) Best Treadmill Sales Right Now Take 23% Off This Space Saving NordicTrack Model Dick's Sporting Goods NordicTrack T Series 10 TreadmillShop At Dick's Sporting Goods This NordicTrack model has an adjustable 10-inch touchscreen and a cushioned running pad that can reach speeds of up to 12 mph and a 12% incline. The frame also comes backed by a 10-year warranty while other machine parts are covered for up to two years.Coupons By Forbes VettedThe Best Dick's Sporting Goods Coupons | Online Promo Codes, Offers & Discounts Score 39% Off This Dick's Sporting Goods Exclusive Treadmill Dick's Sporting Goods Sole F80 TreadmillShop At Dick's Sporting Goods This high-tech treadmill covers all of the basic, plus a few extras: It has a durable steel Z-frame and features a 10-inch display with Bluetooth connectivity, allowing you to view your workout specs, connect to media apps and join pre-set workouts. The treadmill has a maximum 15% incline and can reach speeds up to 12 mph. It also features cooling fans, emergency shut-offs, a wireless phone charging pad and more. This Compact And Sleek Treadmill Is Less Than $350 Amazon Sunny Health & Fitness Compact Foldable TreadmillShop At Amazon If you’re looking for a treadmill that caters to walking and jogging without sacrificing space in your living area, consider this option from Sunny Health & Fitness. The foldable treadmill reaches speeds of up to 6.5 mph and features a digital display, allowing you to track your speed, distance, time, and more. You can also use it to connect to over 1,000 workouts and scenic routes by pairing it with its accompanying app via Bluetooth settings. This treadmill is currently at its lowest price in the past three months. Get 15% Off This BowFlex Option Amazon BowFlex BXT8J TreadmillShop At BowFlex This treadmill is one of the more affordable options from BowFlex. It comes with an array of useful features, like an LCD display with 26 built-in workout programs, a motorized incline up to 15% and a cushioned walking pad. It also has a spacious 20 x 60-inch belt and comes with two free months of BowFlex’s proprietary fitness program, JRNY. This Streamlined Horizon Fitness Design Is 38% Off Horizon Fitness Horizon Fitness T202 TreadmillShop At Horizon Fitness Reaching speeds up to 12 mph and featuring a 12% incline range, this Horizon Fitness design offers speed and variety. The model is slightly more compact than some of the brand’s other models and it has a hydraulic lift system to help fold the machine up when not in use. Take 10% Off The Best Treadmill For Incline BowFlex BowFlex Treadmill 10Shop At BowFlex This durable model is our gear team’s pick for the best treadmill for incline. It’s big, sturdy and has a wide incline and decline range that effectively simulates hilly terrains. The model is a bit bulky, but if you have the space, our tester says the spacious, stable deck makes her feel like she’s “working out on a fancy commercial treadmill at the gym.” Save 22% On This Shock Absorbing Treadmill Amazon Sunny Health & Fitness Smart WiFi TreadmillShop At Amazon Connect to your smart TV and this treadmill’s accompanying app to track your workouts, personalize your experience and reach your fitness goals. The model also features multiple workout programs that allow you to customize its speed (up to 9 mph) and incline (8.5% incline). Many reviewers love that it’s running belt helps ease the pain of walks and runs by reducing the shock from impact. This treadmill dipped $20 in May but is currently at its lowest price since. Get 40% Off This Top-Rated, Bluetooth Treadmill Dick's Sporting Goods Horizon Fitness T101 Connect TreadmillShop At Dick's Sporting Goods Horizon manufactures some of our favorite treadmills, and this model is one of the easiest to set up (in less than 30 minutes) and use, thanks to its EasyDial controls and intuitive keys. With a maximum incline of 10% and speeds up to 10 mph, this design is also great for those looking to connect their phones and fitness apps, including Peloton. The treadmill has Bluetooth connectivity and built-in speakers as well. Best Walking Pad Sales Right Now Save 20% On This Editor-Approved Walking Pad WalkingPad WalkingPad P1 Folding TreadmillShop At WalkingPad The WalkPad P1 has a pretty spacious 47.2 x 16.5-inch walking surface and reaches up to 3.75 mph, making it one of the faster models we tested when trying a handful of walking pads. And, while many under desk treadmills share similar features, this model’s ability to fold in half is a major bonus. Save 20% On This Already Affordable Design Amazon Akluer Walking Pad With InclineShop At Amazon This quiet yet powerful walking pad allows you to walk at speeds of up to 4 mph, making it great for meeting various workout needs. It has a maximum weight capacity of 330 pounds, ideal for an array of individuals looking to exercise at home. The convertible treadmill also features an LED display, an anti-slip running belt, extra padding to reduce shock and more. Just a few days ago, this walking pad was $6 cheaper; however, its current price is still at one of the lowest we’ve ever seen. Get 25% Off Our Best Walking Pad Overall Amazon Goplus 2-In-1 Folding TreadmillShop At Amazon After testing various walking pads, our team editors named this foldable treadmill the best overall. That’s because its design is suitable for various body shapes and sizes, as well as different workout goals, offering the ability to choose between walking and jogging. Overall, it offers a large weight capacity, stability as you move, a range of speeds to choose from and comes at an affordable price. Now that it’s on sale, you can score it for a fraction of its typical cost. Take 43% Off This Non-Slip Walking Pad Amazon Sunny Health & Fitness Slim Foldable TreadmillShop At Amazon This two-in-one treadmill is a great option for anyone who wants to jog but doesn’t have the space for a full-size treadmill. You can use the walking pad to get your steps in or engage the safety bar to run at speeds of up to 8 mph without worrying about slipping. It also has other nice features, like a foldable design, digital display and a tray to place your device for music or streaming. Our Pick For The Best Budget Treadmill Is On Sale For Even Less MOST POPULAR Amazon Sperax 3-In-1 Folding TreadmillShop At Amazon If you want a running treadmill but you’re working with a tighter budget, our gear editors recommend the Sperax 3-In-1 Folding Treadmill. It’s the most compact model from our treadmill shopping guide—made even more affordable with the current discount. The Sperax can reach speeds up to 6.2 mph, support up to 280 pounds and can convert from a running treadmill to a walking pad as needed. Although this model is regularly on sale at this price, it has yet to drop any further. Score This Editor-Approved Walking Pad For $350 Amazon Hccsport 3-In-1 Under Desk TreadmillShop At Amazon Although its impressive features, including a maximum speed of 8 mph and an incline of 6%, wowed our team of editors, this walking pad’s versatility is what landed this model the title of the best walking pad with a built-in desk. The pad is easy to assemble, and can be used with or without its detachable workspace. This discount is the best price we’ve seen for this model in the past three months. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What Is The Best Reasonably Priced Treadmill? The answer depends on your budget and needs. If you’re seeking a more feature-rich treadmill that can support advanced training, the average price will be higher. But if you’re in the market for an entry level option, our gear editors recommend the Horizon Fitness 7.0 AT. It’s not the cheapest model on the market, but it delivers a good balance of features-to-price, earning its place in our shopping guide as the best treadmill under $1,000. How Long Do Treadmills Last? With regular care and maintenance, the average treadmill should last between 7 to 10 years. Each manufacturer has slightly different care suggestions that you should follow, and some models come with special warranties in case any unexpected issues arise. Keep all of this in mind when shopping for your ideal treadmill to get the most value out of your purchase. How Much Do You Have To Spend To Get A Good Treadmill? Our pick for the best treadmill overall, the NordicTrack Commercial 1750, costs $2,300 (though right now it’s on sale for $2,000). However, the exact price you need to spend to get a good treadmill varies depending on your needs. A streamlined under-desk treadmill—like the Sperax Under Desk 2 In 1 Folding Treadmill—can cost as little as $210 whereas a top-of-the-line model from a brand like Peloton can cost upwards of $3,000. What Is The Difference Between A Treadmill And A Walking Pad? A classic treadmill is generally a more robust fitness machine, compared to a walking pad. They can reach higher speeds and typically offer a wide variety of added features and exercise programs. Walking pads are more compact, lightweight and they typically don’t offer incline options or speeds above 4 mph. While treadmills can handle both walking and running, walking pads are typically better suited for low-impact walking. How Do I Pick A Treadmill? There are a handful of considerations to make when picking out a new treadmill. Namely, your budget, how much space you have and the features you’d like the machien to have. A streamlined walking pad can cost under $100, while a top-of-the-line treadmill can set you back upwards of $2,000. Knowing how much you’re ready to spend is a great foundation for beginning your search. Space is another big (or small) factor. If you’re living in an apartment, you may not want to donate a sizable amount of square feet to accommodate a bulky machine. In that case, a treadmill or walking pad that can fold up or slide under your couch may better suit your needs. Finally, make sure you’re getting exactly what you want from your machine’s features. Serious runners will likely need a fully equipped treadmill for training, while others who are just looking to get some extra steps in will be happy with a no-frills walking pad. Jordan Thomas Following Bianca Alvarez Following Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions