5 Free Courses And Certificates To Put On Your Resume In 2025
Leadership Careers 5 Free Courses And Certificates To Put On Your Resume In 2025 ByRachel Wells, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Rachel Wells is a writer who covers freelancing, AI, and remote work. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 04:58pm EDT Share Save Comment A course or certificate, even if in progress and not completed yet, can make all the difference between getting hired for your dream job and being passed off for another candidate getty An estimated 97% of employers are currently using, or about to implement, skills-based hiring, according to Coursera’s latest report. That’s a significant 20% leap from 2023, when skills-based hiring was increasingly becoming a buzzword in HR circles, with the U.S. Department of Labor releasing recommendations and a guidebook for skills-based hiring a year later. 5 Free Courses And Career Certificates To Include In Your Resume Short online courses and certificates are some of the best ways to demonstrate your skills and suitability, not just for the job, but also for the company culture, especially if it thrives on a growth mindset. Here are some free courses and certificates you can study today and add to your resume to boost your chances of being hired (and help you negotiate for higher pay too): 1. Free Social Media Marketing Certification Course: Get Certified In Social Media Strategy Free, by HubSpot Academy Perfect for small business owners, marketing managers, and content creators/freelancers Total completion time is five hours and 18 minutes 2. Data Landscape Of GenAI For Project Managers Free for PMI members, by PMI (Project Management Institute) Perfect if you’re already a project management professional Total course length is five hours (You can find other free beginner-friendly Gen AI courses here in my recent article.) 3. Practical Application Of Generative AI For Project Managers Free, by PMI Suitable for new and existing project management professionals Total course length is five hours 4. IBM: Data Analytics Basics For Everyone Free Course Free if you select the audit option, on edX Perfect for beginners You can gain a certificate, but only if you take the paid option; otherwise you can complete this for free Takes approximately five weeks at three hours a week to complete 5. Getting Started With Python for Data Science, by Codeacademy Free course by Codecademy Includes three hands-on projects to flex your skills and demonstrate your knowledge Is suitable for beginners MORE FOR YOU Is A Career Certificate Worth It? Here are some other reasons why studying a course or career certificate is absolutely essential if you’re seeking to land a promotion, salary premium, high-paying client projects, or get hired faster: About 96% of the 1,000 employers surveyed for the report indicate that a job candidate having a course or certificate on their resume strengthens their application and boosts their chances of being hired, up from 88% two years ago. In the U.S. and Canada, 90% of employers say they’d offer a higher starting salary to candidates who’ve completed certificates and short courses. Nearly a third of entry-level professionals who studied a course or certificate in the past year secured a salary raise. An estimated 21% earned a promotion as a direct result of studying courses and certificates (These stats are taken from Coursera’s Microcredentials Report 2025.) I know from first-hand experience that studying an online course makes it easier to get hired faster. In 2022, I was interviewed for a project management role that was a stretch outside of my comfort zone. When it came time for the dreaded but much-anticipated interview question, “Tell us about one of your weaknesses,” I took this as an opportunity to relate one of my “weak” areas in project management, but then anchored my answer by sharing that I was currently studying the Google Career Certificate in Project Management (at the time this was free due to financial aid offered on Coursera). I was hired that same day. My manager later confided to me that even though I had less experiences than other candidates, this very detail (the course I was studying) was the deciding factor that made her take a bet on me and hire me for the job, because I had proven that I had a growth mindset and clearly had freshly updated skills that could be put to use in the role. So yes, free online courses with certificates are absolutely worth it. Where Can I Find Free Online Courses And Certificates? Choose one free online course or certification from the list above, or find another one that’s more relevant to your career goals. You can find free online courses with certificates (and without certificates) from platforms like: LinkedIn Learning (free to Premium members) Codecademy Great Learning Alison edX IBM SkillsBuild Microsoft Learn HubSpot And many more are just a tap away. Once you’ve started, be consistent. Block out some time every week to study and practice, and share what you’re learning on LinkedIn. You can also add your course or certificate to your resume and include a progress note, like “currently studying,” or “due to complete by October 2025.” This is a positive sign to employers that you’re actively building yourself professionally, and it encourages them to invite you for interviews and offer you job and promotion opportunities. About 97% of employers are adopting skills-based hiring, which means certificates are in greater demand than degrees getty You’re just a few weeks away from changing your entire career and income trajectory. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video