The 7 Best Standing Desks, According To Experts And Remote Workers
Mattress & Sleep Home Fashion Kids & Baby Gear Gear Beauty & Grooming Tech & Electronics Travel Gifts Deals Coupons Edit Story Forbes writers and editors independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission. Learn more Forbes Vetted Home Home Office The 7 Best Standing Desks, According To Experts And Remote Workers ByMonica Petrucci, Commerce Writer, Home & Mattress I have years of experience testing top home and kitchen products. Reviewed byEmmy Favilla, Managing Editor Aug 8, 2025,04:47pm EDT Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Linkedin If you work from home, you likely find yourself sitting for several uninterrupted hours every day; there’s no getting up to move to conference rooms for meetings or have a deskside chat with a coworker. Investing in a standing desk, which can help reduce back pain, improve circulation and promote overall wellness, is a great option to consider if you’re one of the many people who regularly work from a home office. Our staff of remote workers weighed in on the best standing desks, a list we compiled based on expert insights and firsthand experience. These models—like our top pick, the Branch Duo Standing Desk—deliver quiet and speedy movement, sturdy surfaces, durability and attractive designs. The best standing desks are reliably sturdy, move smoothly, hold up well over time and complement a ... More home office.ILLUSTRATION: FORBES / PHOTO: RETAILERS “There are many potential downsides of sitting at a desk for prolonged periods,” says physiotherapist Thomas Olsen, citing lower back pain as the most common complaint from his clients. “Standing desks can be great, as [they] allow us to break up the act of sitting, which can be a big factor as to why we get low back pain.” Picking the best standing desk for your home office, can benefit not just your comfort and health but also your productivity. Read on for our top expert- and editor-backed picks. Our Top Recommendations Best Standing Desk Overall: Branch Duo Standing Desk Best Premium Standing Desk: Jarvis Bamboo Standing Desk Best Value Standing Desk: Fezibo Adjustable Electric Standing Desk With Double Drawer Best Curved Standing Desk: ApexDesk Elite Pro Series Electric Standing Desk Best Customizable Standing Desk: Uplift V2 Standing Desk Best Standing Desk For Small Spaces: Seville Classics Airlift Electric Height Adjustable Desk Best Standing Desk Converter: Flexispot AlcoveRiser Standing Desk Converter M7 Best Standing Desk Overall Sturdy, Attractive And Functional Branch Furniture Branch Duo Standing DeskShop At Branch Furniture Dimensions: 36 x 24 inches, 48 x 24 inches, 58 x 27 inches | Height range: 28 to 47.8 inches | Memory settings: 2 | Motor: Dual | Weight capacity: 275 pounds | Warranty: 10 years Pros: Several customization options Integrated reminders to sit or stand Many optional accessory add-ons Cons: Surface may be prone to fingerprints and chipping This desk can be as minimalistic or embellished as you’d like, thanks to its many customization options. Firstly, it’s available in three sizes to suit any home office space, whether it’s a small corner of your home or a dedicated room. It also comes in an array of color options, including five finishes for the desktop and three colors for the legs. Then there are the accessory add-ons, including attachable drawers, trays, hooks and stands to best suit your individual needs. Beyond aesthetics, this desk’s functional capabilities also go above and beyond. It has a sturdy design that can withstand up to 275 pounds, and it offers a 10-year warranty for peace of mind over time. The standing controls can be accessed via the sleek OLED display screen, which gives users access to two memory preset levels. It even reminds you when to change positions after a certain duration—a major benefit, according to Olsen, who says staying in any one position for too long can result in pain over time. This screen is unique in that it’s slightly less intuitive than the up and down arrow buttons on most other electric standing desks—but after a small learning curve, it’s easy to use. One common complaint from users is that this desk’s surface is prone to fingerprints and minor chipping. However, the brand is dedicated to providing replacements for any damages within the warranty period. Best Premium Standing Desk Bamboo Desktop That's Sustainable And Durable HermanMiller Jarvis Bamboo Standing DeskShop At HermanMiller Dimensions: 30 x 72 inches, 27 x 28 inches, 27 x 60 inches | Height range: 25.5 to 51 inches | Memory settings: 4 | Motor: Dual | Weight capacity: 350 pounds | Warranty: 5 years (desktop); 15 years (frame, mechanical parts, motors and electrical components) Pros: Durable and sustainable bamboo desktop Four preset heights 350-pound weight limit Cons: Minimal color options After diving into the details (and singing the praises) of the Jarvis Standing Desk over two years ago, Forbes Vetted assistant deals editor Jordan Thomas says, “I still love my desk.” Made with a sustainably sourced bamboo surface that’s covered in a UV-cured topcoat, it combines aesthetics with functionality in a design that is naturally durable and moisture-resistant. This desk has a dual-motor build that can hold up to 350 pounds and move at an impressive speed of 1.5 inches per second. The OLED handset features an intuitive control panel with buttons for moving the desk up and down for a customizable height, as well as buttons for four built-in presets. Customization options include size, shape, height range and more—plus an optional add-on for a powered grommet that allows for wire-free charging. Just keep in mind that the bamboo desktop means there’s only one color available, though you can choose from three different leg colors. Best Value Standing Desk A Feature-Rich Desk At An Affordable Price Amazon Fezibo Adjustable Electric Standing Desk With Double DrawerShop At Amazon Dimensions: 40 x 24 inches, 48 x 24 inches, 55 x 24 inches, 60 x 24 inches| Height range: 27.4 to 46.1 inches | Memory settings: 2 | Motor: Single | Weight capacity: 176 pounds | Warranty: 2 years (motor and electronic components); 5 years (non-electric components) Pros: Plenty of built-in storage Two-tier design Several size and color options Cons: Narrow workspace Slow motor For a more affordable option that still delivers a reliable sit-to-stand workspace, the Fezibo Adjustable Standing Desk is a popular pick. Despite its comparatively low price, this desk is rich with built-in features, including a two-tier design to separate monitors from your keyboard and mouse, as well as two drawers for hidden storage and a hook at the edge for headphones and wires. The motor offers two programmable height buttons to suit your personal sitting and standing preferences, plus intuitive up and down arrow buttons to adjust to every height in between. This desk is available in several different color finishes and size options, but keep in mind that the two-tiered design of this desk means that each individual workspace is limited—so you may want to opt for a larger size than what you anticipate needing. Also, many users have noted that this motor moves slower than other standing desks they’ve used in the past, so it’s important to consider whether speed is a dealbreaker. Best Curved Standing Desk Tried-And-True Pick With An Ergonomic Design Amazon ApexDesk Elite Pro Series Electric Standing DeskShop At Amazon Dimensions: 60 x 27 inches, 71 x 30 inches | Height range: 30 to 49 inches | Memory settings: Four | Motor: Single | Weight capacity: 235 pounds | Warranty: 2 years Pros: Easy assembly Spacious surface Quiet motor Cons: Minimum height may be too tall for some Opting for a desk with a curved design allows you to get closer to the center for a more ergonomic experience. Forbes Vetted managing editor Emmy Favilla has been using this desk for almost five years, and says that it’s held up extremely well with minimal wear and tear. “It’s a really beautiful piece of furniture,” she says. “I’ve used it near daily since I brought it into my home, and it has remained extremely sturdy and perfectly functional.” This desk features easy-to-use controls that allow you to adjust the height to your preference, or set and toggle between four different height presets. It also comes equipped with a cable management tray and two corner grommets to keep wires organized and out of sight. The desktop is available in a range of colors and finishes, all of which feature a high-pressure laminate that’s resistant to scratches. Favilla can attest to this: It has withstood the wrath of her many cats who have enjoyed jumping on and off the desk over the years, with any scratches from their claws being barely noticeable. The brand says that this desk comes together in just 45 minutes, but professional assembly is available for an additional $110. Note also that the minimum height on this desk is 30 inches, which is higher than most of the options on this list. This means it may be a bit too tall on its lowest setting for some, as reported on a few consumer reviews. Best Customizable Standing Desk Countless Options To Build Your Dream Desk Uplift Desks Uplift V2 Standing DeskShop At Uplift Desk Dimensions: 42 x 30 inches, 48 x 30 inches, 60 x 30 inches, 72 x 30 inches, 80 x 30 inches, 42 x 24 inches, 48 x 24 inches, 60 x 24 inches, 72 x 24 inches, 80 x 24 inches | Height range: 24.5 to 50.1 inches | Memory settings: 4 | Motor: Dual | Weight capacity: 355 pounds | Warranty: 15 years Pros: Myriad of customization options Solid wood upgrade available Fast, quiet movement Cons: Quality of add-ons vary Senior updates editor Karen Tietjen has owned this desk for several years and says it’s become her “work-from-home essential.” She opted for the Uplift because of its wide range of customization options—from dozens of desktop materials and colors to functional accessories like unique keypads and power grommets. “I also wanted a solid wood desktop and opted for the rubberwood, which was quite affordable while being beautiful and durable,” Tietjen says. Beyond rubberwood, shoppers can also opt for laminate, bamboo, birch, walnut and other styles (each with unique additional costs). There are also 10 different size options to choose from, ranging in both width and depth, plus several add-ons to choose from, like pop-up power grommets, keypad controls, caster wheels and more. Additionally, the brand offers free gifts with the purchase of extra-large desks, including hammocks, lamps and organizer sets. But it’s not all about eye-catching extras; this desk also boasts solid basic performance. “The controls are easy to use and the desk lifts and descends smoothly,” Tietjen says. “Not only does this enable me to switch positions during the workday, but when it’s done, I lift the desk and tuck my chair underneath to save space.” She has virtually no complaints with this desk, aside from the fact that the half-circle drawer attachment feels flimsy compared to the rest of the desk, which has remained impressively sturdy—even after a cross-country move. Best Standing Desk For Small Spaces A Sleek Desktop That Doubles As A Whiteboard The Home Depot Seville Classics Airlift Electric Height Adjustable DeskShop At The Home Depot Dimensions: 47.5 x 24 inches | Height range: 28 to 46.5 inches | Memory settings: 3 | Motor: Single | Weight capacity: 176 pounds | Warranty: 2 years (electronic components); 7 years (non-electric components) Pros: Dry-erase surface Compact footprint Three customizable pre-sets Cons: Small surface area and weight capacity If your work-from-home space is less “office” and more “tiny corner,” you likely need a desk that’s slim enough to be unobtrusive. Enter this Seville Classics model, which has a slender design that’s compact yet highly functional, thanks to a built-in drawer and integrated USB ports for seamless charging. This desk is also unique because it features a tempered glass surface that doubles as a whiteboard, so you can take meeting notes or jot down reminders right on your desk, and erase them effortlessly afterwards. Users can also take advantage of the three height preset options, as well as an integrated child lock for safety. Just keep in mind that this desk can only support up to 176 pounds, so it may not be the best fit for all office needs. Best Standing Desk Converter Sturdy, Additional Height At A Minimal Investment FlexiSpot Flexispot AlcoveRiser Standing Desk Converter M7 Shop At Flexispot Dimensions: 28 inches, 32 inches, 35 inches, 40 inches | Height range: 4.7 to 20.1 inches | Memory settings: No | Motor: N/A | Weight capacity: 33 pounds | Warranty: 3 years (gas spring system); 5 years (frame, desktop) Pros: One-hand lift mechanism Several size options Optional two-tier design Cons: Adds height to your desk, even while seated If you work from your kitchen table and a full desk isn’t an option—or you love your existing desk but still want standing benefits—a desktop converter is a great solution. This Flexispot model is a favorite of updates writer Fran Sales, whose home office consists of a small corner in her apartment’s bedroom. “As someone who gets a sore lower back and tight hips easily after extended periods sitting or standing, I’m the ideal candidate for a standing desk,” Sales says. This Flexispot convertor offered a solution for mitigating her chronic pain that didn’t involve investing in an entirely new desk. This model features a two-tiered design for multi-monitor organization, but the bottom tier can be easily removed when not needed. Plus, there are several size options available to suit different desk sizes and needs. It’s not electric, so you don’t need to worry about being near a power source; instead, a gas-spring mechanism allows you to lift and lower the surface with just one hand. Plus, it has rubber feet to keep it in place without sliding. “It is sturdy enough to hold a massive Dell monitor and my laptop stand,” Sales says. “I particularly like the smooth one-handed operation and the detachable keyboard tray that’s roomy enough for my keyboard and mouse.” RECOMMENDED BYFORBES VETTED The 10 Best Office Chairs Of 2025, Tested To Withstand Long HoursBy Anna Perling The Best Standing Desk, Based On Months Of TestingBy Erica Puisis Why Trust Forbes Vetted The home team at Forbes Vetted is committed to providing the best recommendations to make the most of your living space and home office, from testing the best office chairs to researching the best desk organizers. Monica Petrucci is a commerce writer at Forbes Vetted and the author of this article. She has researched and tested hundreds of products throughout her years as a professional product tester, from fake plants to pressure washers. This article was edited by Emmy Favilla, Forbes Vetted’s managing editor, a 20-year industry veteran who has been covering commerce content for over eight years. She has also has tested several of these standing desks firsthand. We included several models that our staff has years of hands-on experience with in order to provide real-world insights that readers can trust. We interviewed two experts for this article: Thomas Olsen, physiotherapist and founder of EmbdyHealth, provided expert insight on the importance of standing throughout the day and how a standing desk can have a positive impact on health. Dave Adams, vice president of marketing and interior style advisor at BDI Furniture, offered insight on what features and materials to prioritize in a high-quality standing desk. We strive to keep all of our content up to date in order to provide the most helpful and accurate information to our readers, performing regular updates on our articles. This article was last updated in August 2025. How We Chose The Best Standing Desks We combined hands-on experience with expert-backed insights in order to finalize a reliable list of the best standing desks to suit all home office needs. We tapped several remote-working staff members who own and recommend their standing desks for this article. They provided real-world feedback on several products on this list, highlighting their desks’ pros and cons. We gathered insights from Adams, who told us which standing desk materials and motor mechanisms are the best choices when it comes to functionality and longevity. We used these insights when deciding which models were suitable for the list. We combed through consumer reviews, making note of any common praises or complaints that multiple users experienced and carried that knowledge into this article. We only included models with a consumer rating of 4 stars or more, in order to ensure all standing desks meet the highest standards for real-world performance. What To Consider When Shopping For The Best Standing Desks There’s a lot to keep in mind when shopping for the best standing desk—beyond mere height adjustability. “A premium desk should feel like a natural extension of your workspace,” Adams says. “Not just a surface that moves, but one that enhances the way you live and work.” Materials Adams recommends prioritizing high-quality materials in a standing desk, since that’s likely going to directly translate to its longevity. “Look for finishes that are not only durable but beautiful—like hardwood veneers, tempered glass or powder-coated steel,” he says. “These elevate the desk from a utilitarian object to a design statement.” Size The optimal desk size is directly related to how much real estate you’re willing to give up in your office space, as well as how much you need to support your work routine. Consider how many monitors you regularly use, whether you need extra space for accessories like a keyboard and mouse, as well as how much décor you’d like to keep on your desk. “Whether you need a compact footprint or an expansive setup, the desk should support your workflow and integrate seamlessly with complementary storage and office components,” Adams says. Height Settings It’s important to take note of the lowest and highest points available with each given standing desk, especially in the context of your own individual height. “People should keep their standing desk high enough where they can have their shoulders and arms relaxed while working, without having to reach too far,” Olsen says. “It is also really important to have the computer—and all of your other work stuff—at eye level, to make sure that you don’t get any neck or shoulder pain.” Of course, eye level is different for everyone depending on their height, so it’s a good idea to use a tape measure to get a better idea of the minimum and maximum heights of a standing desk, ensuring you’d be able to comfortably work without straining your neck or back in the process. Single Vs. Dual Motor System Most standing desks specify whether they offer a single or dual motor system, which simply distinguishes whether a motor is present in one or both of the desk legs. As Adam explains, a single motor can result in slower, louder operation and uneven wear, especially if you have a lot of items on your desk and their weight is not distributed evenly. “For anyone with multiple monitors, a heavy desktop setup or a preference for refined motion and reliability, a dual-motor system is the clear choice,” he says. Design Features And Accessories Included features and optional add-ons are all important to keep in mind as well. You should consider whether you’d like your desk to be a simple, flat surface or a one with included drawers and hooks for integrated storage. “The best standing desks don’t stand alone—they’re part of a coordinated office system,” Adams says. “Integrated wire management, optional keyboard drawers and matching file or multifunction cabinets all work together to keep your space efficient and inspiring.” Of course, optional accessories come with an added cost, so you’ll need to weigh how important those are to your office space and everyday work habits. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What Is The Best-Rated Standing Desk? Our top pick for the best standing desk is the Branch Duo Standing Desk, since it features a durable dual-motor design and powder-coated steel legs for longevity, plus an intuitive control panel that will remind you to switch between sitting and standing. What Is The 20-8-2 Rule For Standing Desks? The popular 20-8-2 rule advises users to sit for 20 minutes, stand for eight and move around for two in order to reduce the issues related to being sedentary. Physiotherapist Thomas Olsen agrees with this general rule: “It is very similar to what I tell a lot of my patients who suffer from back pain,” he says. What Are The Negatives Of A Standing Desk? Health-wise, it’s important to remember that standing all day will not necessarily solve all problems associated with being sedentary. “If you are standing there, then you are doing pretty much exactly the same thing as when you are sitting for prolonged periods,” Olsen says. He recommends incorporating small bits of movement throughout the day, in addition to both sitting and standing while working. Coupons Safelite Get 15% Off Sitewide Use By August 9, 2025 Explore Safelite Coupon Squarespace Take 20% Off Any New Website Plan Use By August 9, 2025 Explore Squarespace Coupon Kohl's Get An Extra 30% Off With A Kohl’s Card Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Kohl's Take An Extra 20% Off In Store And Online Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Kohl's Get 25% Off Select Backpacks And Lunch Boxes Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Send me a secure tip. Monica Petrucci Following Editorial Standards Reprints & Permissions