Why Is ‘Resident Alien’ Ending The Likely Reason Behind The Sudden Cancelation
Business Hollywood & Entertainment Why Is ‘Resident Alien’ Ending? The Likely Reason Behind The Sudden Cancelation ByMonica Mercuri, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Monica is an entertainment reporter covering TV, film, and music. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 04:25pm EDT Share Save Comment Harry Vanderspeigle (Alan Tudyk) appears on Resident Alien Season 4 Episode 1 "Prisoners". James Dittiger/USA Network The beloved series Resident Alien is coming to a close. On Friday, August 8, fans will get to see the final episode of the fourth season, which will also serve as the series finale. Why is Resident Alien ending? Here’s everything to know about the show’s cancelation. The sci-fi comedy, which premiered in 2021, is based on the Dark Horse comic of the same name by Peter Hogan and Steve Parkhouse. Alan Tudyk plays an extraterrestrial who crashes on Earth and wants to destroy humanity. But after stealing the identity of a human doctor in a small Colorado town, he ends up falling in love with the residents and protects them from extraterrestrial threats. ForbesThe Best New TV Shows Coming To Netflix, HBO Max And More In August 2025By Monica Mercuri In late July, ahead of the final episodes of Season 4, USA Network and SYFY confirmed that the current season will be the final one of the series. “I knew going into it that this was likely going to be our final season,” creator and showrunner Chris Sheridan admitted to TV Insider, who first reported the news. Sheridan continued, “Creatively, that was exciting because I knew we could spend the time wrapping up some storylines and driving toward an ending. I’m so proud of how good Season 4 is and especially proud that we were able to finish as strongly as we did, with a finale that is probably my favorite episode of the series.” MORE FOR YOU Why Is Resident Alien Ending? Harry Vanderspeigle (Alan Tudyk) and Sahar (Gracelyn Awad Rinke) appears on Resident Alien Season 4 Episode 8 "Mine Town". James Dittiger/USA Network While the exact reason for Resident Alien’s cancelation has not been disclosed, Deadline reported that the show faced challenges after nearly missing out on a Season 3 renewal. Ultimately, it was renewed, but “with a budget reduction and a move from its original home, Syfy, to sister NBCUniversal cable network USA,” the outlet reported. The sci-fi comedy received a viewership boost after Netflix dropped the first three seasons of the series last summer. However, the rise in awareness likely wasn’t enough, as the new episodes of Season 4 have been “a modest ratings performer amid declining overall cable viewership and haven’t gotten much traction on NBCU streamer Peacock,” according to Deadline. At San Diego Comic-Con in July, Sheridan shed more light on the decision to end the series, revealing that it was a “smart” move to plan for it to conclude with Season 4. "I knew the smart thing was to plan on it being over after this season and to finish the story, so that when we walk away, [we can be] proud of what we’ve done, the story is told, and the fans can feel satisfied," Sheridan explained at the panel, according to USA Network. "In the writers’ room, we crafted a season that wraps up storylines and gives the audience a very satisfying conclusion to the four seasons that they've been watching. And I couldn't be more proud of it," he continued. “It's really hard to come up with a season finale and incredibly hard to come up with a satisfying series finale. I'm so proud of where we end up this season ... I can't wait for people to see it. I think people are gonna love it.” Will There Be A Resident Alien Spinoff Or Movie? Aliens play poker in Resident Alien Season 4, Episode 5, "The Human Condition." USA Network/SYFY With Resident Alien’s sudden cancelation, there’s always a chance that the universe could continue with a spinoff or film. After all, Sheridan told TV Insider that concluding the series “gives Resident Alien a very satisfying ending while also leaving the door cracked open for any future this world may have.” Sheridan said at San Diego Comic-Con that a movie continuation of the show seems “plausible” in the future, though there are currently no plans to make one. “There won’t be another season of this show right now. I do hope for a movie down the road. I think that’s a plausible thing and that USA does do,” he said. “No time soon. It’s not like I have ideas, but I think that’s something that could happen. I don’t know about another season, but the industry is always changing. Who knows?” The cast joked also about doing a Resident Alien Versus Predator spinoff. How Did Resident Alien Stars React To The Cancelation? Resident Alien cast James Dittiger/USA Network Lead star Tudyk reacted to the cancelation news on Threads, writing, “It was a hell of a fun playground to play in. Laughter through the tears.” Corey Reynolds, who portrays Sheriff Mike Thompson, also posted a heartfelt response on the platform. "Best job I ever… had," he wrote. “Special “thank you” to all the fans who always showed us so much love. The feeling was absolutely mutual.” Sara Tomko, who stars as Asta Twelvetrees, shared the news on her Instagram. “It will take time for me to process and digest this fully, I’m sure ... For now, I can say with a full heart that this show changed my life completely,” she penned in the caption. Elizabeth Bowen, aka Deputy Liv Baker, also posted a statement on Threads. "We’ve been thinking that this season was probably our last ever since we got renewed for season 4. This is just confirmation," she shared. "Thanks to everyone who has supported the show and continues to support us. We love you. Three more episodes." How To Watch The Resident Alien Season 4 Finale The Resident Alien series finale airs tonight, Friday, August 8, 2025, at 10 p.m. ET/PT on USA Network and SYFY. Episodes are available on USANetwork.com and the USA Network app, and the finale will stream on Peacock one week later, starting Friday, August 15. Check out the sneak peak for Resident Alien Season 4, Episode 10, below. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video