Fleetwood leads by four in St Jude as bad weather stops play
Fleetwood leads by four as bad weather stops play Image source, Reuters Image caption, Tommy Fleetwood is yet to win a PGA Tour event Steve Sutcliffe BBC Sport journalist Published 8 August 2025 Updated 9 August 2025 St Jude Championship - round two leaderboard -13 T Fleetwood (Eng); -9 C Morikawa (US), A Bhatia (US), J Rose (Eng)*; -8 K Kitayama (US), A Novak (US) Selected others: -7 S Scheffler (US); -6 L Aberg (Swe); -4 H Hall (Eng); -3 R MacIntyre (Sco); -2 M Fitzpatrick (Eng), J Thomas (US)* *Denotes round still to be completed Full leaderboard Tommy Fleetwood carded a six-under 64 to open up a four-shot lead before play was suspended in the second round of the St Jude Championship in Memphis because of severe weather. Having shot 63 in the opening round, the 34-year-old Englishman followed up superbly with seven birdies. A bogey on the 18th was the only blemish on Fleetwood's total of 13 under as he put himself in a strong position for a first PGA Tour victory. After hitting a fine 65, two-time major champion Collin Morikawa is at nine under, along with his fellow American Akshay Bhatia in the opening event of the FedExCup play-offs. England's Justin Rose was on the 17th tee and among 21 players still yet to finish when play was stopped because of lightning. He was also four shots adrift of Fleetwood. Fleetwood has finished runner-up six times at PGA Tour events, with the last of those when he missed out on the Travelers Championship in June by a single shot. "It hasn't happened for me yet out on the PGA Tour but I would much rather be up there and not quite get it done than not there at all," said Fleetwood. "Who knows, maybe this weekend is the weekend and we'll see, and we'll crack on from there. "I'm happy to put myself in with a chance over the weekend. I think that's exactly where you want to be and keep testing yourself." World number one Scottie Scheffler is in the clubhouse at seven under after firing 66. Englishman Harry Hall's round of 72 left him on four under - a stroke ahead of Scotland's Robert MacIntyre, while 2022 US Open winner Matt Fitzpatrick is at two under after a disappointing 71, which contained five bogeys. The second round will resume on Saturday at 13:30 BST. Related topics Golf