The Best Kids Pajamas To Keep Them Comfy And Cozy All Night Long
Mattress & Sleep Home Fashion Kids & Baby Gear Gear Beauty & Grooming Tech & Electronics Travel Gifts Deals Coupons Edit Story Forbes writers and editors independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission. Learn more Forbes Vetted Kids & Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories The Best Kids Pajamas To Keep Them Comfy And Cozy All Night Long ByEsther Carlstone I'm a writer and editor focused on baby and kids gear. Reviewed byRose Gordon Sala, Deputy Editor Aug 8, 2025,04:13pm EDT Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Linkedin No matter how old they get, a good, cozy pair of pajamas can work wonders in setting the mood for a restful night’s sleep for kids. After speaking with over a dozen parents and using my own firsthand experience as a parent of three, we’ve found the best kids pajamas are comfortable, durable and fit your child’s current aesthetics. Our best overall pick, Hanna Andersson pajamas, are beloved by our parent editorial team and are known for their high-quality sleepwear for kids, while kids who sleep hot may love the extremely lightweight and soft Little Sleepies kids pajamas. The best kids pajamas are comfortable, durable and fit their aesthetic.Illustration: Forbes / Photo: Retailers Pair their new PJs with a highly rated mattress for kids and you’ve got the recipe for some quality sleep. Choosing the right pajamas for your child isn’t a one size fits all process: every child will have their preferences on fabric, fit and style. “For everyday use, snug-fitting cotton or bamboo is usually the most breathable and comfiest,” says Mona Sharaf, a New York City-based stylist for kids. Below, we’ve curated a list of parent- and kid-loved favorites to suit every type of little sleeper. Our Top Recommendations Best Kids Pajamas Overall: Hanna Andersson Long John Pajama Set Best Value Kids Pajamas: Burt's Bees Baby Two-Piece Pajama Set Best Kids Pajamas For Hot Sleepers: Little Sleepies Two-Piece Pajama Set Best Kids Pajamas For Boys: Cat & Jack Long Sleeve Snuggly Soft Pajama Set Best Kids Pajamas For Girls: Loulou Lollipop Long Sleeve Pajama Set Best Pajamas For Big Kids: Petite Plume Kids Flannel Pajama Set Best Kids Pajamas For Babies: Post Peanut Long-Sleeve Convertible One Piece Best Kids Pajamas Overall A Parent-Loved Favorite To Pass Down Hanna Andersson Hanna Andersson Long John Pajama SetShop At Hanna Andersson If anything became clear when interviewing parents about their favorite kids pajamas, it’s that people love Hanna Andersson sleepwear—myself and my own kids included. It’s evident from the minute you get your hands on them that they’re more durable than other PJs you may have owned before. I have several pairs that have been passed down through four or five kids and still make their way back to us with hardly any wear and tear, which seems to be a shared insight. “We have used third-generation hand-me-downs and handed down new ones that have then gone on to two or three kids,” says Forbes Vetted tech and gear writer and dad Steve John, while another mom calls them the “OG gold standard” of kids' pajamas. Both the long and short-sleeved sets are made of Oeko-Tex Standard 100 certified organic cotton, and thanks to the soft feel and no-scratch seams, they’ve been comfy for everyone, even my child with skin sensitivities. The pajamas are available in a wide variety of fun prints and licensed character themes, from Spider-Man to Bluey, with new ones constantly rotated in. Come holiday season (including Halloween), they’re a go-to for many families looking for matching family sets. “I love these because they are super soft, long-lasting and great for matching family sets,” says Sharaf. Just note they do tend to be on the thicker side (hence the durability), in case that’s a factor your child may be sensitive to, but even though they fit closely, they have give and are made of breathable cotton. Best Value Kids Pajamas Sweet Prints At Affordable Prices Amazon Burt's Bees Baby Two-Piece Pajama SetShop At Amazon For affordable organic kids pajamas, Burt’s Bees is a parent-approved favorite. From woodland creatures to nature-inspired prints in muted watercolor prints, the organic cotton PJs are hard to beat. “I always gravitate toward Burt's Bees pajamas, especially when my kids are younger and growing out of their pajamas quickly. They're pretty soft and are durable enough to hand down from one kid to the next,” says baby and kids writer and mom of three Alicia Betz who also buys her kids matching holiday pajamas from their extensive collection. “For infants and babies this is the best brand because it’s gentle on sensitive skin, fits snugly and budget-friendly,” says Sharaf. I’ve also noticed that the fit is on the snug side (and my kids were on the smaller side), so if you have toddlers or older kids, you may want to size up. Sizes run from 12 months to 14 in this set, so every kid in the family can have a pair. The brand also makes newborn and baby pajamas, too. Best Kids Pajamas For Hot Sleepers Extra Stretch And Breathable Bamboo Amazon Little Sleepies Two-Piece Pajama Set If your kid tends to run warm while they sleep, finding the right sleepwear can often be key to a better night’s rest. My three hot sleepers all love the Little Sleepies line which are noticeably lightweight and breathable—not to mention buttery soft. The brand uses a bamboo-derived fabric that creates an exceptionally silky soft feel. It also makes them super stretchy, to the point that my kids have been able to wear the same pair for multiple years, but they somehow also magically still retain the stretch as they grow, even after dozens of washes. The printed tag and smooth seams make them sensory-friendly for every child. They’re available in a variety of fun patterns and limited-edition themes and have a wide range of sizes with baby zippered pajamas starting at 0-3 months all the way up to size 16 for the two-piece pajama sets. And when you consider that they can often be worn for several seasons, if not years, it’s kind of a steal. If you’re inclined to match your littles, they also have adult pajamas and matching family sets. Best Kids Pajamas For Boys Comfy And Affordable Enough To Stock Up On Target Cat & Jack Long Sleeve Snuggly Soft Pajama Set Shop At Target Parents of boys I spoke with all mentioned Target’s Cat & Jack line as a go-to kids pajama pick. Whether they’re playing hard in these or just using them for sleep, they hold up, come in fun colors and themes and are affordable enough to replace frequently as they outgrow or wear through them. Older boys may prefer the short-sleeve shirt and flannel pants set (just don’t be surprised if they wear the pants to school), while younger kids might prefer the oh-so-cozy Snuggly Soft set . The patterns on these change every season, so you’re bound to find something to resonate with your kiddo. Best Kids Pajamas For Girls Charming Prints And High-Quality Construction Loulou Lollipop Loulou Lollipop Long Sleeve Pajama Set Made primarily of a Tencel lyocell, these super soft pajamas are also lightweight and come in the loveliest patterns in aesthetically pleasing gentle colorways that aren’t too “girly.” I also love that they’re tag-free, so sensitive little ones aren’t constantly scratching themselves. There’s a short-sleeve version as well for the warmer months. The sizing is limited, however, and runs from 2T to 6, so bigger kids must look elsewhere. The brand offers equally soft and cozy baby sleepers, that run from newborn to 24 months. "Loulou Lollipop makes the kind of baby clothes that you never want your kids to grow out of. I had several newborn onesies for my now-14-month-old, and I always reached for them when they were in his drawer,” says senior updates editor Karen Tietjen who also shares that the pajamas are pretty stretchy, able to grow with your child “and bound to get lots of wear.” Best Pajamas For Big Kids For When They're Too Old For Flashy Prints Petite Plume Petite Plume Kids Flannel Pajama Set Big kids approaching the tween years are likely to want PJs that aren’t so fitted and pattern-filled. This classic flannel pajamas set is soft, cozy and simple enough to appeal to even the most selective big kid. Despite being flannel, this pair is lightweight enough to comfortably wear all year long, although there’s also an even lighter twill set that’s just as elegant. Both are made of high-quality cotton, utilizing natural flame-retardant fibers so you can rest assured no harmful chemicals are close to your child. Available from 6 to 12 months sizing all the way up to 16 in four solid color options, all the siblings can match if they want. Parents can even get in on the coordinating action with a gorgeous adult set. These luxe pajamas are definitely a splurge, so I’d recommend ordering a size up when possible given that cotton can shrink a bit in the wash. Best Kids Pajamas For Babies Convertible Features For Ultimate Versatility Posh Peanut Post Peanut Long-Sleeve Convertible One Piece Named our favorite baby pajamas in our best baby clothes story, the incredibly soft and easy to get on Posh Peanut zippered one-piece is still a winner. A tw0-way zipper means middle of the night diaper changes are as easy as they can be, so you’re not struggling with a million snaps that never seem to quite match up. Made of bamboo-derived viscose, the tag-free onesie is lightweight, breathable and stretchy (which makes those adorable baby rolls that much more pronounced.) Each onesie has convertible mittens to keep newborns from scratching themselves and convertible footies with grips on the bottom, which can easily be folded away when you want their chubby toes to peek out. RECOMMENDED BYFORBES VETTED The 30 Best Gifts For 6-Year-Olds, From STEM Kits To Creative ToysBy Alicia Betz Hailey Bieber Reveals Pregnancy Products She ‘Couldn’t Live Without’By Esther Carlstone Why Trust Forbes The Forbes Vetted baby and kids editorial team are all parents who are dedicated to helping fellow parents save time by doing the research, including firsthand testing, and only recommending the best products that we would buy ourselves. We’ve conducted deep dives into everything from the best kids shoes to the best kids backpacks and more. This story was written by Esther Carlstone a mom to three and longtime parenting editor whose own kids have used most of the pajamas on this list. She recently covered the best nanny cameras and the best pregnancy compression socks. This story was edited by Rose Gordon Sala, a Forbes Vetted deputy editor, mom to three and experienced parenting journalist who has extensively tested and researched baby and kids gear for years and whose kids wore Hanna jams nearly exclusively as little kids. We consulted Mona Sharaf, a New York City-based personal stylist who often works with kids and families, to get her perspective on what features the families she works with are looking for in kids pajamas and what details have mattered. How We Chose The Best Kids Pajamas To find the best kids pajamas, I consulted other parents, spoke to an expert kid stylist and also relied on my own firsthand experience as a mom of three who has tried out dozens of brands of kids pajamas on my own kids throughout the years. I also conducted market research to narrow down the selection process. I spoke to over a dozen parents of kids of various ages, including many on our own baby and kids gear staff, about their favorite kids pajamas and what features made them stand out. I spoke to a kid stylist who frequently shops of kids pajamas for her clients to get her thoughts on what features parents need to look out for. I used firsthand experience with my own kids and spoke to them about things they did and didn’t like about certain pajamas. I tried to select well-known brands that are frequently positively reviewed for their quality and comfort and focused on the brands that came up over and over again amongst parents. I favored kids pajamas that had a vast majority of favorable reviews online. What To Look For In The Best Kids Pajamas When shopping for kids pajamas, there are several factors for parents and caregivers to consider. At the end of the day, however, it often comes down to which ones your kids personally like the most, whether it’s based on feel, a favorite pattern or theme or particular style they gravitate toward. Material Sharaf recommends looking for kids pajamas made of breathable and soft fabrics, like cotton that are gentle on the skin. “Cotton is soft, breathable and natural. Bamboo is very soft, moisture-wicking and naturally hypoallergenic,” she says. She also advises to "avoid anything scratchy or synthetic unless it’s fleece for cold weather.” Durability Sharaf also advises purchasing kids pajamas that “can handle frequent washing without shrinking or fading.” To know this, you may have to rely on word of mouth from other parents or pay close attention to online reviews. Fit To keep children safe, federal flammability laws require children’s sleepwear up to a certain size to be flame-resistant or snug-fitting to minimize the risk of catching fire. Comfort After safety, kids pajamas should be comfortable to the child that’s wearing them. Look for details like tag-free tops and bottoms and flat seams for added comfort, especially those with sensory sensitivities. Kid-Approved Colors and Patterns At the end of the day, your kid is going to resist wearing their pajamas if it’s in a color or pattern they don’t like, so go with the path of least resistance and select a pair that appeals to their current style and interests, because every win on the bedtime journey is huge. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What’s The Best Fabric For Kids Pajamas? Natural, breathable fabrics like cotton or bamboo are comfortable for most kids, while fabrics like modal and lyocell are lightweight and cool, which may feel nice for children who tend to run hot. It really comes down to an individual child’s personal preference. What Is The Healthiest Material For Pajamas? Again, think of natural fabrics like organic cotton that haven’t been treated with pesticides or flame retardants as children’s skin tends to be more sensitive than adults. How Many Pairs Of Pajamas Should A Kid Have? This depends on the kid, whether they’re fully potty-trained or not and how much drawer space they have. Many toddlers and young kids have five to seven pairs of pajamas, one for nearly each day of the week. This way, if a few pairs are in the wash, they’ll always have a clean set available. Older kids, on the other hand, may be good with just three seasonally-appropriate pajama sets. Coupons Kohl's Get An Extra 30% Off With A Kohl’s Card Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Kohl's Take An Extra 20% Off In Store And Online Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Kohl's Get 25% Off Select Backpacks And Lunch Boxes Use By August 10, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Kohl's Get 30% Off Select Levi's Jeans For Men And Women Use By August 24, 2025 Explore Kohl's Coupon Adidas Sign In To Unidays To Receive The 25% Off Student Discount Explore Adidas Coupon Send me a secure tip. Esther Carlstone Following Editorial Standards Reprints & Permissions