The 8 Best Alaska Cruises To Explore Wildlife, Glaciers And More
Forbes Vetted Travel Cruises The 8 Best Alaska Cruises To Explore Wildlife, Glaciers And More Glacier Bay National Park & Preserve, Alaska, United States, North America getty Aug 08, 2025, 04:07pm EDT Share Save All products and services featured are independently selected by Forbes Vetted contributors and editors. When you make a purchase through links on this page, we may earn a commission. Learn more Astrid Taran, Forbes Staff Forbes Vetted An Alaska cruise is at the top of many travelers’ bucket lists, and for good reason. Many of the state’s wildlife-filled fjords and epic glaciers are often difficult to reach by land, making a cruise to The Last Frontier an excellent way to see it all—and one of the most in-demand cruise destinations in the world. To choose the very best Alaska cruise itineraries, I tapped into my own personal experience as a cruiser and also reached out to Brittany Chrusciel, an expert in the category who has sailed on over 50 cruises, for insights. If you’re planning a trip during Alaska cruise season (April through October), we’ve curated our top picks for 2025. Best Alaska Cruise Overall: Holland America Line Best High-End Alaska Cruise: Silversea Cruises Best Alaska Cruise For Families: Norwegian Cruise Line Best Alaska Cruise For Couples: Princess Cruises Best Small Ship Alaska Cruise: Alaskan Dream Cruises Best Alaska Cruise For Adventure: UnCruise Adventures Best Alaska Cruise Overall: Holland America Line Nieuw Amsterdam exterior. Courtesy of Holland America Line Holland America Reserve At Holland America Recommended Itinerary: Nieuw Amsterdam, 7-day Glacier Discovery Departures: May-September All-Star Amenities: Five specialty dining restaurants; private balcony breakfast or dinner Holland America Line has been sailing to Alaska for more than 75 years and is considered one of the most classic Alaska cruise experiences. It holds the most permits to visit Glacier Bay National Park than any other cruise line and features a wide range of onboard wildlife experts, who host daily programs helping passengers find animals in their natural environments. The cruise line’s “Alaska Up Close” program immerses guests in local cultures through onboard workshops and activities; on all of its Alaska cruises, a Huna Native Interpreter comes aboard to share the history of the Tlingit people. We recommend its 7-Day Glacier Discovery itinerary, which is offered both northbound and southbound. Both cruise along the Inside Passage and Glacier Bay, calling upon Ketchikan, Juneau and Skagway. Best High-End Alaska Cruise: Silversea Cruises Silversea's small luxury cruise ship, Silver Moon, at sail in Alaska. Silversea Cruises Silversea Cruises Reserve At CruiseDirect Recommended Itinerary: Silver Nova, 7-day Vancouver to Seward, Alaska Departures: June-September All-Star Amenities: Complimentary in-cabin robes and slippers; tea and coffee service; breakfast in bed; traditional afternoon tea; gala evenings; specialty dining restaurants For travelers who want an Alaska cruise experiences with high-end amenities and fine dining, Silversea Cruises is Chrusciel’s top pick. “The cruise line sails several small ships that offer personal touches and luxurious amenities, including the Silver Moon vessel, which hold only 600 passengers but has eight dining options—including its innovative S.A.L.T. Bar and Lab,” she says. For Alaska cruises, Chrusciel recommends the cruise line’s Silver Nova itineraries, particularly the week-long Vancouver to Seward, Alaska sail. “The ship launched in 2023 and is designed with uninhibited views of the sea, perfect for scenic sailing and glacier viewing,” she says. Best Alaska Cruise For Families: Norwegian Cruise Line Norwegian Aqua cruise ship at sea. Norwegian Cruise Line Norwegian Cruise Line Reserve At CruiseDirect Recommended Itinerary: Norwegian Encore, 7-day Alaska: Glacier Bay, Skagway, Juneau and Ketchikan Departures: May-September All-Star Amenities: Wide range of balcony accommodations; Broadway-quality shows; specialty dining restaurants; adults-only pool and hot tub; spa and salon Chrusciel recommends Norwegian Cruise Line for families or multigenerational groups looking to visit Alaska for the first time. “Convenience and broad appeal are often top of mind for families and groups, and Norwegian Cruise Line does this well with a fleet of modern, amenity-packed mega-ships bound for the Last Frontier each Alaska season,” she says. The cruise line’s Encore, Joy and Bliss ships all sail to Glacier Bay; we recommend the 7-day voyage to Glacier Bay, Skagway, Juneau and Ketchikan for a robust exploration of all that Alaska has to offer. Best Alaska Cruise For Couples: Princess Cruises Princess Cruises ship sailing in Anchorage, Alaska. Princess Cruises Princess Cruises Reserve At Princess Cruises Recommended Itinerary: Royal Princess, 7-day Voyage of the Glaciers Departures: May-September All-Star Amenities: Wide range of balcony accommodations; Reserve Collection mini-suites; The Sanctuary, an exclusive adults-only retreat; Princess Luxury Beds in every cabin; private balcony breakfast; a handful of speciality dining options; romance packages Another classic Alaska cruise experience, Princess Cruises has been sailing to the destination for more than 50 years. My very first cruise—both as a whole, and to Alaska—was with Princess, and I still recommend the cruise line to those who are seeking an easy to navigate experience with plenty of activities. For couples, this cruise line is a particularly great choice: Nicknamed “The Love Boat,” the brand has a long history of hosting duos and honeymooners, immersing its guests into the sights, sounds, flavors and history of the 49th state through its award-winning North to Alaska programming. For those booking for next year, a new ship is also on the horizon: “Star Princess, a brand-new ship sailing convenient, week-long cruises round trip from Seattle, is a ship to keep an eye on next year,” says Chrusciel. Best Small Ship Alaska Cruise: Alaskan Dream Cruises Chicagof Dream exterior. Courtesy of Alaska Dream Cruises Alaskan Dream Cruises Reserve At Alaskan Dream Cruise Recommended Itinerary: Chichagof Dream, North to True Alaska Expedition Departures: May-September All-Star Amenities: Small-ship experience with just 76 passengers; 5-night itinerary; travel with like-minded adventurers “A naturally stunning destination like Alaska encourages you to get as close to your surroundings as possible, which is a job well suited to a small ship,” says Chrusciel. She recommends Alaskan Dream Cruises’ small-ship itineraries; because of their size, they can call upon more remote destinations, leaving the crowds behind. Knowledgeable expedition leaders serve as personal guides on every voyage, sharing their expertise in biology, geography and ecology, as well as sharing about the Southeast Alaska’s local cultures. Life aboard Alaskan Dream Cruises’ five ships is casual and relaxed, meals feature fresh local fare, and everyone strives to provide opportunities for guests to make personal connections to the region’s places and people. Alaska Cruise With The Most Adventurous Excursions: UnCruise Adventures UnCruise Wilderness Legacy in Glacier Bay. Courtesy of UnCruise Adventures UnCruise Adventures Reserve At UnCruise Adventures Recommended Itinerary: Wilderness Legacy, Glaciers & Tranquility, Alaska’s Adult-Only Adventure Departures: April-September All-Star Amenities: Beer and wine tastings; complimentary drinks; hot tub; onboard naturals and guides; onboard launch platform for kayaks and paddleboards UnCruise Adventures provides an “unfiltered type of voyage,” according to Chrusciel. The Alaska-based cruise line prioritizes adventurous excursions, like paddleboarding, kayaking, hiking and taking a skiff out in search of spotting wildlife. For the daring, there’s even a chance to go on a polar plunge. “Uncruise provides not only an authentic experience in the region but, much like Alaskan Dream Cruises, these ships also allow you to sail round trip from Alaskan ports like Juneau or Sitka without the need to call in Canada—a loophole only reserved for U.S.-based vessels,” says Chrusciel. Why Trust Forbes Vetted The Forbes Vetted travel team has researched, written and published dozens of cruise guides spotlighting itineraries around the globe. This story was written by Forbes Vetted’s senior travel editor, Astrid Taran, an eight-year industry veteran who’s traveled to over 40 countries and has sailed on multiple cruise lines, including several on this list. Her very first cruise experience was an Alaska cruise. She has written multiple cruise guides for Forbes Vetted, including the Most Exciting New Cruises Of 2025 and the Best Caribbean Cruises. This story was edited by Forbes Vetted deputy editor Jane Sung, who oversees the travel section. She has traveled extensively and sailed on several cruises, including a memorable one to Alaska. For this story, Taran spoke to Brittany Chrusciel, a travel writer and former Forbes Vetted contributor who specializes in cruise travel and has sailed on over 50 cruise ships. How We Chose The Best Alaska Cruises We selected the top contenders based on personal experience as well as extensive research. For this story, Taran combined first-person experience on cruises she’s personally sailed on as well as spent hours combing through reviews. We included options that are both family-friendly and adult-only. For our family-friendly selections, we prioritized cruises that also offered plenty of activities for adults. We included a mix of mega-ship cruises with a robust variety of entertainment, as well as smaller and more intimate cruises that provide a more personalized experience. More Travel Stories Most Exciting Cruise Ships Launches Of 2025 Best Caribbean Cruises Best Cruises For Families Got a tip? Share confidential information with Forbes. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions