Duolingo Stock Up 7%. Learn Why, How To Grow, Whether To Buy $DUOL
Money Markets Duolingo Stock Up 7%. Learn Why, CEO Growth Path, Whether To Buy $DUOL ByPeter Cohan, Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Peter Cohan, a Boston-based senior contributor, covers stocks. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 04:01pm EDTAug 09, 2025, 09:09am EDT Share Save Comment Summary Duolingo's stock initially soared due to strong Q2 2025 results and AI-driven growth, but reversed course after GPT-5's launch sparked fears of new competition. Despite AI competition concerns, analysts believe Duolingo possesses a strong competitive "moat" and can leverage AI to enhance its platform and sustain high growth. Key strategies for Duolingo to maintain over 30% growth include diversifying content, utilizing advanced AI, converting more free users to paid, expanding globally, and boosting user retention. Show More BERLIN, GERMANY - JANUARY 31: The Duolingo bird during the Marina Hoermanseder Fashion Show as part of the Berlin Fashion Week AW25 at Hotel Oderberger on January 31, 2025 in Berlin, Germany. (Photo by Isa Foltin/Hoermanseder via Getty Images) Hoermanseder via Getty Images Duolingo stock soared 30% Thursday, according to CNBC, as investors bid up the stock after the language-learning site beat second quarter 2025 revenue and profit expectations and raised its growth guidance for the rest of the year. However, later that day OpenAI launched GPT-5 – which built a custom web app in just three minutes to teach users French -- causing Duolingo’s shares to reverse course. Investors feared GPT-5 could slow the company’s growth, noted Yahoo! Finance. By August 8, the company’s shares were up a modest 7% since the day before the earnings announcement. Is this an opportunity to buy Duolingo’s stock? The shares could rise if Duolingo executes a strategy to sustain the company’s revenue growth at at 30% or higher rate for the next five years. Such a strategy would include the following elements: Diversify beyond language learning, Use GPT-5 and other AI tools to enhance learning and development, Maximize revenue per active user by encouraging users to upgrade to a paid subscription, Expand into Asia and to younger learners, and Boost customer retention through gamification. These changes could be implemented with some changes to Duolingo’s culture of fun, free, and data-driven learning. Specifically, the company may need to require customers to pay for services and adapt its learning approach to serve new customer groups effectively. Duolingo is pleased with its most recent results. “We exceeded our own high expectations for bookings and revenue this quarter, and did it while expanding profitability,” co-founder and CEO Luis von Ahn said in a release. MORE FOR YOU I have requested comment from Duolingo and will update this post if I receive a response. Duolingo’s Boffo Second Quarter Performance And Prospects Duolingo exceeded investor expectations in the second quarter, raised its full-year guidance and issued a strong third-quarter forecast as the company benefited from AI-fueled growth. Here are the key numbers: Second quarter 2025 revenue: $252 million-- up 41% and $11 million more than the Wall Street estimate, noted CNBC. Q2 daily active users: 48 million – up nearly 40%, CNBC wrote. Q2 net income: $45 million – up 84%, CNBC reported. Q3 revenue projection: $259 million – the midpoint of a range – $6 million more than the forecast from Wall Streeet analysts, according to CNBC. 2025 revenue guidance: $1.015 billion – the midpoint of a range – which is $23.5 million above the midpoint of the company’s previous range, CNBC noted. Duolingo stock rose in the wake of increased guidance due to “strong user growth driven by artificial intelligence,” according to CNBC. This growth came from providing some paying subscribers with an AI-powered video-call conversation practice feature. The learning platform expanded into new courses – such as chess – and acquired music gaming startup NextBeat to broaden its app product. When GPT-5 was unveiled, the company’s stock lost much of its initial bounce. OpenAI presented a customer web app in three minutes that taught users French – which has the potential to cost Duolingo market share, Yahoo! Finance reported. Of course, Duolingo could use GPT-5 and other AI tools to introduce new features to engage its users. Why Duolingo Stock Went Up And Down Duolingo’s expectations-beating guidance was the result of growth in the number users and their engagement. Users pay for conversational practice which traditional language learning tools do not provide. Duolingo Max with GPT-4 drove more users to pay because the service’s Lily feature satisfies a significant unmet user need – to practice conversing in a new language without the embarrassment of making mistakes with a real person, Quartz reported. While GPT-5 has the potential to further enhance the value to users of Duolingo’s services, some investors feared such AI “could enable new competitors or substitutes for Duolingo’s app, threatening its long-term growth,” reported investing.com. One analyst dismissed these investor worries – noting they ignored Duolingo’s competitive strengths and how GPT-5 could accelerate the company’s growth. Market reactions "miss DUOL’s competitive advantages & moat," Morgan Stanley wrote, according to investing.com. Duolingo’s moat is significant. Specifically the company may be able to sustain its lead due to “its content quality, user engagement loop, and ability to incorporate the latest tech faster and better than upstart challengers,” according to Medium. Duolingo stands out as “one of the few SMID internet companies already leveraging Gen AI across its business” and AI could accelerate the company’s "development flywheel, enabling persistent improvements across KPIs & deepening the moat," Morgan Stanley added. How Duolingo Can Grow Faster Than 30% Duolingo could potentially sustain growth at a rate of more than 30% by implementing five growth strategies: Broaden Duolingo’s addressable market. The company has already launched math and music courses and ultimately aims to be a comprehensive education hub, noted The Motley Fool. Use advanced AI to differentiate Duolingo in the eyes of users. Duolingo can make courses more effective and interactive than competitors – generating customized lessons and exercises – that encourage more subscribers to pay for the company’s premium service, reported Quartz. Convert more of Duolingo’s free user base into paying customers. Paid subscribers and average revenue per user increased through more aggressive marketing of Duolingo Max. By introducing new subscription perks, using ads to nudge upgrades, and offering enterprise or family plans, Duolingo could win more paying customers, noted investing.com. Find new learners in untapped markets. Duolingo may add tens of millions of users by expanding into China and India, according to Reuters. Moreover, the company could target younger learners or professionals. To capture these new customers, Duolingo would need to adapt its content to fit with their specific learning styles. Keep learners returning daily. Using gamification – such as streaks, leader boards, and rewards – and engaging friends and family, Duolingo can create a community of learners which increases word-of-mouth and lowers churn, Medium reported. Although Duolingo may need to adapt its culture to implement all these strategies, Von Ahn strikes me as having a very deep understanding of how to use technology to satisfy the unmet needs of learners, according to StanfordBusiness. Where Will Duolingo Stock Go Next? Duolingo stock could rise further. The 13 analysts who cover the company set an average price target of $501.82 – suggesting upside of 47.46%, according to TipRanks. Rather than undermining Duolingo, GPT-5 could help the company to boost its revenue growth in the years ahead by using its knowledge of language learning and its users’ unmet needs to stay ahead of its rivals. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video