To Boldly Go Where No Man Has Gone Before - Sixties TV Shows Sure Did!
Lifestyle Travel To Boldly Go Where No Man Has Gone Before—’60s TV Shows Sure Did The Cold War spawned its share of sixties space-themed television shows. The star of them all, of course, was ‘Star Trek’. Runner-ups included ‘Lost In Space’ and ‘My Favorite Martian’. ByJim Clash, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Jim Clash writes about extreme adventure and classic rock. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 03:45pm EDTUpdated Aug 8, 2025, 05:17pm EDT Share Save Comment LOS ANGELES - FEBRUARY 16: Nichelle Nichols as Lt. Uhura, Leonard Nimoy as Commander Spock (Mr. Spock) and William Shatner as Captain James T. Kirk on the bridge of the USS Enterprise on the Star Trek: The Original Series episode "Space Seed." Original air date February 16, 1967. Image is a frame grab. (Photo by CBS via Getty Images) CBS via Getty Images The sixties were one of the most creative decades for the arts. Mostly known for innovative rock n' roll, now called "classic rock," it also broke ground in the areas of pop culture, dress, movies and literature. In Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3 of this series on sixties television, we discussed outrageous comedy series, innovative spy shows and imaginative science fiction born in that decade (links below). But it wasn't just comedy, espionage and sci-fi. The Cold War inspired many space-themed shows, as well. Following are three of the most memorable. (1) "Star Trek": Clearly this television series stood above the rest when it came to outer space. "Star Trek" in its original form ran for only three seasons on NBC, from 1966-1969, but it had a much more pronounced effect on pop culture than any of its peers. Starring William Shatner as James T. Kirk, captain of the starship Enterprise (who actually flew to space in 2021 as part of a Blue Origin stunt), and co-starring Leonard Nimoy as Mr. Spock, each episode took the audience on a vicarious trip across the universe. As it boldly proclaimed, "To go where no man has gone before." Never mind that the solar systems visited were several light years apart, and that Einstein had postulated that nothing can travel faster than the speed of light (186,300 miles per second), we all suspended our disbelief for an hour each week. During Enterprise's travels, the crew encountered a number of aliens, both hostile and friendly. There were several fantasy gadgets, too, including a transporter that instantly teleported humans in the form of energy great distances, and a dilithium-crystals power source that put the spacecraft into warp drive. In an interview with this reporter a few years back, Shatner said that one of his most challenging “Star Trek” episodes was "The Enemy Within," during which he played a good Capt. Kirk and a bad one. Shatner told me it stretched him as an actor. "I had to be imaginative, work out all of the strange things associated with drama in a one-hour show." "Star Trek" went on to spawn an entire industry of merchandise - toy spaceships, comic books, action figures - plus several movies and spin-offs. There are even "Star Trek" conventions where “Trekkies" gather to celebrate together. Sometimes, members of the cast attend. THE TONIGHT SHOW WITH JAY LENO — Episode 1261 — Pictured: Robot B-9 arrives on November 12, 1997 — (Photo by: Margaret Norton/NBCU Photo Bank/NBCUniversal via Getty Images via Getty Images) NBCU Photo Bank/NBCUniversal via Getty Images (2): “Lost In Space”: As comic relief to “Star Trek,” this series featured a kitchen approach to space travel. The Robinsons, a family of space colonists leave an over-populated Earth in search of a new world. Their spaceship, Jupiter 2, crash lands on Priplanus after being damaged, and the crew spends the first season marooned there. During the second season, the ship is repaired and manages to take off, only to crash land again, this time on another planet. The interaction of the crew during each episode, mostly lighthearted, cordial and humorous, is one key to the series success. Included is the precocious 9-year-old son, William; wife Maureen, a biochemist played by actress June Lockhart; and the father, expedition commander John Robinson. Dr. Zachary Smith, a selfish, unlikeable character not part of the family, interferes with the Robinson's plans, often endangering the expedition. There is also a campy robot that seems to be panicked most of the time, calling out, "Danger, Will Robinson!” “Lost In Space" ran from 1965-1968 on CBS. In 2018, the series was rebooted. LOS ANGELES - OCTOBER 25: MY FAVORITE MARTIAN cast member Ray Walston (as Uncle Martin) in the episode: 'Raffles No. 2'. Image dated October 25, 1963. (Photo by CBS via Getty Images) CBS via Getty Images (3) “My Favorite Martian”: This campy space series actually takes place on Earth. A newspaper reporter, Tim O'Hara, played by Bill Bixby, discovers a Martian (actor Ray Walton) whose spaceship has crashed and is trying to repair it. The Martian calls himself Martin and ends up posing as O’Hara’s uncle when O’Hara doesn’t turn him in. Comedic situations arise when Martin tries to blend in with humans while hiding his extraterrestrial powers. To complicate matters, a suspicious landlady, Lorelai Brown (actress Pamela Britton) is always snooping around. Martin disappears into thin air whenever she or anyone else tries to spot him. This series had no redeeming science value, but was pure unadulterated entertainment. "My Favorite Martian" ran from 1963-1966 on CBS, and was eventually adapted as a cartoon series and made into a feature film. Honorable mentions in space-themed sixties television go out to “The Jetsons,” a cartoon series, and “Fireball XL-5,” an animated series. Forbes‘Do Not Attempt To Adjust The Picture. We Are Controlling Transmission’By Jim ClashForbesThe Secret Agent Men (And Women) Of ‘60s TelevisionBy Jim ClashForbesTalking Horse, Genie, Witch—The Goofy Genius Of ‘60s TVBy Jim Clash Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions