Pedro Pascal And Joaquin Phoenix’s ‘Eddington’ Gets Streaming Date, Report Says
Business Hollywood & Entertainment Pedro Pascal And Joaquin Phoenix’s ‘Eddington’ Gets Streaming Date, Report Says ByTim Lammers, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I cover Hollywood and entertainment. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 03:10pm EDTAug 08, 2025, 10:00pm EDT Share Save Comment "Eddington" cropped poster featuring Pedro Pascal and Joaquin Phoenix. A24 Eddington, Ari Aster’s COVID-era drama starring Pedro Pascal, Joaquin Phoenix and Emma Stone, is reportedly coming soon to digital streaming. Find out when you can watch the movie at home. Rated R, Eddington opened in theaters on July 18. The logline for the movie reads, “In May of 2020, a standoff between a small-town sheriff (Phoenix) and mayor (Pascal) sparks a powder keg as neighbor is pitted against neighbor in Eddington, New Mexico.” Forbes‘Weapons’ Poised To Upset ‘Freakier Friday’ At Weekend Box OfficeBy Tim Lammers Written and directed by Aster (Hereditary, Midsommar), Eddington also stars Luke Grimes, Deidre O’Connell, Michael Ward and Austin Butler. Eddington is expected to be released on Tuesday, Aug. 12, on digital streaming via premium video on demand, according to When to Stream. While When to Stream is typically accurate with its PVOD reports, the streaming tracker noted that Eddington’s studio A24 has not announced or confirmed the release date and it is subject to change. MORE FOR YOU Forbes‘Thunderbolts*’ Ends Theatrical Run. How Much Money Did It Lose?By Tim Lammers When Eddington makes its PVOD debut, it will be available for digital purchase or rental on such platforms as Apple TV, Fandango at Home, Prime Video and YouTube. Currently, Prime Video has Eddington listed for pre-order for $24.99, which is also the film’s purchase price. Since PVOD rentals are typically $5 less than purchase prices, viewers can expect to rent Eddington for 48 hours for $19.99. How Was ‘Eddington’ Received by Audiences And Critics Eddington to date has earned $9.8 million domestically and more than $993,000 internationally for a worldwide box office tally of $10.8 million to date. Eddington had a production budget of $25 million before prints and advertising costs, according to Deadline. Eddington earned a 68% “fresh” rating from Rotten Tomatoes critics based on 221 reviews. ForbesWhen Is Horror Thriller ‘Weapons’ Coming To Streaming?By Tim Lammers The RT Critics Consensus for the movie reads, “Eddington carries a stellar cast, fearless direction by Ari Aster and an off-kilter story, but its tonal misdirection will often leave viewers wanting [more].” The film also received a 64% “fresh” Popcornmeter score based on 1,000-plus verified user ratings. The RT audience summary reads, “Backed by an unanimously phenomenal cast, Eddington captures pandemic-era trauma with mixed results, delivering an unmistakably Ari Aster film: idiosyncratic, enigmatic, and polarizing.” Eddington is expected to be released on PVOD on Tuesday. ForbesWhy Does Anna From Netflix’s ‘My Oxford Year’ Look So Familiar?By Tim Lammers Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video