Windows 11 Deadline Is Just Weeks Away Are You Ready To Dump Windows 10
Innovation Consumer Tech Windows 11 Deadline Is Just Weeks Away: Are You Ready To Dump Windows 10? ByDavid Phelan, Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I write about lifestyle tech Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 02:50pm EDT Share Save Comment Microsoft stops support for Windows 10 on Oct. 14, 2025 (though you can extend this for a year). Keen gamers make up one group of Windows 10 diehards, but the latest report from Steam shows they are very slowly switching over. Windows 11 and Windows 10 operating systems NurPhoto via Getty Images Many users, including gamers, are using machines which aren’t capable of running Windows 11, so will have to extend unless they buy new equipment. And if it ain’t broke, you can see why they don’t want to change. ForbesMicrosoft Confirms ‘Free’ Windows 11 Upgrade Has Hidden Cost For UsersBy David Phelan As spotted by Windows Latest, the latest Steam Hardware & Software Survey, a monthly survey by the essential gaming distribution platform, shows how many of its users are on Windows (spoiler: very nearly all of them), and which versions. First, the bad news for Microsoft: some users are still using Windows 7. Not many, though, just 0.09%, which is unchanged from the previous survey. Next up is Windows 10, which still, just months before support ends, still manages 35.2% of the total. Microsoft will be happy that that figure has declined, as it wants everyone on Windows 11, but less happy that the drop is just 0.5% compared to the previous total. Still, Windows 11, the figure Microsoft is keenest to see grow is creeping up and is now at 59.9%, almost exactly three fifths, then. Windows overall makes up 95.23%, a tiny fraction of 1% less than the last survey. The other players, since you ask, are Mac users, which the survey quaintly refers to as OSX, who make up just 1.88% of the users. But it’s growing! A whole 0.12% up! The rest of the users are on Linux, which is more than the Mac, at 2.89% Microsoft continues to push the change to Windows 11, and for those who can do it on their current computer, there are many benefits — even if it may not be free, after all. ForbesApple iPhone 17 Release Date: Your Complete CountdownBy David Phelan Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions