THC On Tap Cannabis-Infused Drinks On Draft Now Offered In 3 States
Lifestyle Vices THC On Tap: Cannabis-Infused Drinks On Draft Now Offered In 3 States ByA.J. Herrington, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. A.J. Herrington is freelance writer covering weed news and culture. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 02:30pm EDT Share Save Comment Mitch Buhler of the White Tail Inn in Saint Germain, Wisc. pours a Pharos THC-infused beverage. Photo by Tom Nimsgern of Roughing it Photography courtesy of Pharos Cannabis-infused beverage brands are exploring new territory with the introduction of THC drinks on tap, now available at bars and taverns in at least three states. The recent launch of kegs of sparkling libations from Pharos Premium Infused Beverages makes the brand one of the first companies to offer THC-infused drinks on tap in Wisconsin, while other brands have debuted weed drinks on draft in South Carolina and Minnesota. Weed Drinks Are A Multi-Billion Dollar Industry The global cannabis beverage market is expected to reach $3.1 billion per year by 2030, according to a business data analysis report from Research and Markets published last month. Hemp-derived THC beverages are especially popular, both with manufacturers that avoid the red tape of regulated marijuana and customers who appreciate the accessibility of hemp products, which were legalized with the passage of the 2018 Farm Bill. Hemp-derived THC drinks can already be found packaged in bottles and cans in many states across the country. But offering THC-infused beverages on draft is a largely untapped market. Mary Bernuth, co-founder and president of Pharos Brands, says that cannabis-infused beverages give adult consumers new options in social situations. “We’re watching a cultural transformation in real time — one where people are rethinking their relationship with alcohol and exploring new ways to relax, connect, and unwind,” Bernuth writes in an emailed statement. “Seeing Pharos on tap in Wisconsin taverns isn’t just about product placement — it’s about building a new kind of ritual. One that’s inclusive, intentional, and grounded in wellness.” The Blood Orange Lime variety of Pharos THC-infused beverages is available on tap at select bars in Wisconsin, including the Whitetail Inn in St. Germain, Orsetta in De Pere and The Phoenix Taproom & Kitchen in Eau Claire. Each keg of the sparkling beverage contains a microdosed hemp-derived sparkling beverage that the brand says is “designed for sessionable enjoyment and social connection.” Pharos' Blood Orange Lime THC-infused sparkling beverage is now available on tap in select bars and taverns in Wisconsin. Image courtesy of Pharos. MORE FOR YOU THC On Tap Also Available In South Carolina And Minnesota In South Carolina, Rebel Rabbit THC-infused beverages are available on tap at bars and restaurants such as City Tavern and Bohemian Bull in Greenville, as well as other outlets. THC drinks on draft can also be found in Minnesota, where a state law allowing such products went into effect last year. Dan Schnabel, taproom manager at Headflyer Brewing in Minneapolis, told CBS News that his team moved quickly to offer a THC-infused brew on tap in anticipation of the 2024 law change. “Having it on tap gives us so many different options for our consumers to taste it, to try it, to enjoy one while they're here on site,” Schnabel said. “It’s more approachable because not everybody necessarily wants to come in and purchase an entire can and drink an entire can.” Bans Threaten A New Industry Despite their popularity, the party may soon be over for unregulated cannabis-infused beverages. Congress had considered updating the 2018 Farm Bill to end what many see as a loophole in the legislation that led to products with intoxicating compounds including delta-9 THC, delta-8 THC, THCA and more. Similarly, states including California, Illinois, Texas, Nebraska and others have adopted or pursued policies to ban such products. Without a unified strategy, Bernuth of Pharos believes the current regulatory environment needs guidance from the federal government that includes regulated access to hemp THC products for adults. “As a brand committed to consumer safety and normalization, we welcome smart, uniform regulation of hemp-derived THC at the federal level,” says Bernuth. “The current patchwork of state laws makes it challenging for responsible operators to scale and educate effectively. We believe a fair model would treat hemp beverages like alcohol: requiring clear labeling, age-gated sales, third-party testing, and encourage safe, social use. Our goal has always been to build trust through transparency — and we’re ready to lead in that next phase of evolution.” Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video