Jonas Brothers Earn A Quick Bestseller With New Album
Business Hollywood & Entertainment Jonas Brothers Earn A Quick Bestseller With New Album ByHugh McIntyre, Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Hugh McIntyre covers music, with a focus on the global charts. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 02:28pm EDT Share Save Comment Jonas Brothers’ Greetings from Your Hometown debuts at No. 3 on U.S. iTunes, topping most new releases in a busy week for major album drops. MACY'S 4TH OF JULY FIREWORKS — 2025 — Pictured: Jonas Brothers pose backstage at the "Macy's 4th of July Fireworks" (Photo by: Ralph Bavaro/NBC via Getty Images) Ralph Bavaro/NBC via Getty Images The Jonas Brothers spent a decade apart, with each member building a career in music, acting, and business after the band first dominated the charts in the early 2000s. The 2019 reunion of the siblings brought Happiness Begins, led by the No. 1 smash “Sucker,” which became one of the most successful comebacks of the decade. Since then, the three brothers have kept up a steady flow of singles and projects, as they’ve worked to reclaim the chart presence they enjoyed earlier in their career. Now, their sixth studio effort Greetings from Your Hometown is finally here — and just hours after its release, the title is already proving to be one of the week’s top sellers in the United States. Greetings from Your Hometown Debuts High Greetings from Your Hometown arrives as one of the biggest new titles this Friday, the start of a new tracking week in America. The full-length currently sits at No. 3 on the iTunes Top Albums chart in the U.S. It scores the second-highest debut of the frame behind Lost Americana by MGK (formerly Machine Gun Kelly), which opens at No. 2. The tally is still led by the KPop Demon Hunters soundtrack. Jonas Brothers Outpace Several New Releases Even though the Jonas Brothers land just behind MGK, the group outperforms several other high-profile arrivals and a handful of older titles that are experiencing a sales surge. Eight of the albums inside the iTunes Top Albums list’s top 10 weren’t there just hours earlier, and that roundup includes new drops from JID, Bailey Zimmerman, Gunna, Halestorm, and The Black Keys. Van Halen’s Balance is also enjoying a resurgence thanks to a newly-released live track that precedes a deluxe edition that’s set to be shared later this month. MORE FOR YOU Singles From Greetings from Your Hometown Climb the Charts All four singles from Greetings from Your Hometown are moving up the iTunes Top Songs chart. “No Time to Talk,” which dropped in June, jumps more than 50 spaces to No. 81. “I Can’t Lose,” the most recent of the bunch, reenters at No. 107. Earlier singles “Slow Motion,” a collaboration with Marshmello, and “Love Me to Heaven” also reappear among the country’s top-selling individual tracks. The new focus track, “Loved You Better” with Dean Lewis, has yet to break onto the iTunes top sellers ranking in the U.S., but it’s still early for the cut. No Hot 100 Singles Yet This Era So far, none of the singles from Greetings from Your Hometown have reached the Hot 100. Three — “Slow Motion,” “Love Me to Heaven,” and “No Time to Talk” — have landed on the Pop Airplay chart, which measures radio play in the U.S. on top 40 stations, but this era has yet to produce a true hit. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video