Rihanna’s Animated Movie ‘Smurfs’ Gets Streaming Date, Report Says
Business Hollywood & Entertainment Rihanna’s Animated Movie ‘Smurfs’ Gets Streaming Date, Report Says ByTim Lammers, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I cover Hollywood and entertainment. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 02:25pm EDT Share Save Comment Papa Smurf (voice of John Goodman), No Name (James Corden) and Smurfette (Rihanna) in "Smurfs." Paramount Animation/ Smurfs™ & © PEYO 2025 Smurfs — a new animated adventure starring the voices of Rihanna and John Goodman— is coming soon to digital streaming. Rated PG, Smurfs opened in theaters on July 18. The official summary for Smurfs reads, “When Papa Smurf (Goodman) is mysteriously taken by evil wizards, Razamel and Gargamel, Smurfette (Rihanna) leads the Smurfs on a mission into the real world to save him. With the help of new friends, the Smurfs must discover what defines their destiny to save the universe.” Forbes‘Freakier Friday’ Rotten Tomatoes Reviews: Does Lightning Strike Twice?By Tim Lammers Directed by Chris Miller (Shrek the 3rd, Puss in Boots), Smurfs also stars the voices of Nick Offerman, JP Karliak, James Corden, Daniel Levy, Amy Sedaris, Natasha Lyonne, Sandra Oh, Octavia Spencer, Nick Kroll, Hannah Waddingham, Alex Winter, Maya Erskine, Billie Lourd, Xolo Maridueña, Marshmello and Kurt Russell. Smurfs is expected to debut on digital streaming via premium video on demand on Tuesday, Aug. 12, according to When to Stream. While the streaming tracker is typically accurate with its PVOD reports, When to Stream noted that Paramount Pictures Animation has not announced or confirmed the PVOD release date for Smurfs and it is subject to change. Forbes‘Wednesday’ Creators Explain The Netflix Hit’s Season 2 Split ScheduleBy Tim Lammers When Smurfs arrives on PVOD, it will be available on a variety of digital platforms, including Apple TV, Fandango at Home, Prime Video and YouTube. Prime Video currently has the film available for pre-order for $24.99, which is also the film’s digital purchase price. Since PVOD rentals are typically $5 less than purchase prices, Smurfs will be available to rent for a 48-hour period for $19.99. MORE FOR YOU How Was Rihanna’s ‘Smurfs’ Received By Audiences And Critics? Smurfs to date has earned nearly $29.6 million domestically and $61.1 million internationally for a worldwide box office tally of $90.7 million. Smurfs had a production budget of $58 million before prints and advertising costs, according to The Numbers. Smurfs was met with harsh reviews from Rotten Tomatoes critics, who collectively gave the film a 20% “rotten” rating based on 94 reviews. The RT Critics Consensus for the film reads, “Antic and zany without being particularly fun, this incarnation of Smurfs just isn't the smurfest tool in the shed.” ForbesWhy Does Anna From Netflix’s ‘My Oxford Year’ Look So Familiar?By Tim Lammers Audiences, meanwhile, earned a “fresh” 64% score on RT’s Popcornmeter based on 500-plus verified user ratings. The RT audience summary for the movie reads, “Thin on plot but rich in blue charm, Smurfs is sufficiently smurfy for kids and fans alike.” Rated PG, Smurfs, starring the voices of Rihanna and John Goodman, is expected to arrive on PVOD on Aug. 12. Forbes‘Wednesday’ Season 2 Stars On Working With Tim Burton And Jenna OrtegaBy Tim Lammers Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video