Why Hiroshima and Nagasaki are safe to live in today
Why Hiroshima and Nagasaki are safe to live in today In August 1945, the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. BBC climate and science reporter Esme Stallard explains why 80 years on, the radiation from the explosions is undetectable. World War Two in Europe ended in May 1945 but the Allies, including the UK, US and USSR, were fighting against Japan in east Asia. About 71,000 soldiers from Britain and the Commonwealth died in the war against Japan, including more than 12,000 prisoners of war who died in Japanese captivity. The Allies had told Japan to surrender in July 1945, but the deadline passed. The US dropped the first atomic bomb on Hiroshima on 6 August 1945, and the second on Nagasaki three days later. About 214,000 people were killed in the blasts and Japan surrendered. 1 day ago World War Two Health Japan Share Save Archive: Oasis set for 'biggest rock gig' of 1990s BBC footage from 1996 shows preparations for the band's hugely anticipated concerts at Knebworth. 11 mins ago Beds, Herts & Bucks Thousands protest in Jerusalem over Israel's Gaza City occupation plan BBC correspondent Emir Nader speaks to demonstrators against the Israel's plans for Gaza, including a former soldier who says he no longer supports the government. 3 hrs ago Middle East Watch: BBC reporter learns new tricks with Edinburgh Fringe acts The BBC's Courtney Bembridge gets a taste of juggling, circus skills and improvised singing with Festival Fringe performers. 10 hrs ago Edinburgh, Fife & East One-minute World News Watch the latest news summary from BBC World News. International news updated 24 hours a day. 13 hrs ago Legend of shape-shifting witch 'buried head first' Hidden Lancashire explores the story of Meg Shelton, the "Fylde Hag" who supposedly had magical powers. 19 hrs ago Lancashire Watch: Royal Albert Hall hosts first overnight Prom in decades "The energy in the room has just been so incredible" organist and curator Anna Lapwood told the BBC. 20 hrs ago Watch: 'World's Ugliest Dog' crowned in California Held at the Sonoma County Fair in Santa Rosa, the annual event promotes adopting dogs of all ages and appearances. 21 hrs ago US & Canada Farmer's Bash bringing something a 'little bit different' to festival scene The Farmer's Bash Weekender is coming to Boucher Playing Fields in Belfast on Saturday and Sunday. 22 hrs ago Northern Ireland Kew tests giant waterlily with viral challenge Gardens around the world are testing the weight capacity of giant waterlily leaves this month. 22 hrs ago London Watch: 'Houston, we've had a problem' says Jim Lovell Jim Lovell, who guided Apollo 13 safely back to Earth, has died aged 97. 22 hrs ago US & Canada I made an AI clone of my dead son - and let a journalist interview him An interview between a US journalist and an AI clone of a teenager who was killed during shooting at his school has prompted criticism online. 1 day ago US & Canada Bristol International Balloon Fiesta takes off 1 day ago Watch: Rower says response to MP's migrants tweet 'ridiculous' One rower says the people gathering with torches reminded him of the "swamp scene" from Shrek. 1 day ago Norfolk Firefighters battle to contain Greek wildfires The fire service says the body of an elderly man was found inside his home in the Togani area, close to where the fire started. 1 day ago Europe What Israel's Gaza City takeover plan could mean for Palestinians Israel has approved a plan to take control of Gaza City, which it says is part of its strategy to end the war. 1 day ago Middle East City manager taken on first tour of Bristol Gerhard Struber joins BBC Points West presenter Ali Durden on his first tour of Bristol's landmarks. 1 day ago Bristol Warning before new season as football fan gets ban Tomas Coxe is banned from attending matches for three years after trying to punch security staff. 2 days ago Gloucestershire Watch: Aircrews battle rapidly spreading Canyon Fire in California The wildfire is moving east into LA County with thousands of residents ordered to evacuate. 2 days ago US & Canada BBC Newsline signed summary A signed summary of BBC Newsline. 2 days ago Watch as hot air balloon strikes primary school The incident happened on Friday, the first day of the Bristol International Balloon Fiesta. 2 days ago Bristol