Deftones Beat The Competition To No. 1 With A New Single
Business Hollywood & Entertainment Deftones Beat The Competition To No. 1 With A New Single ByHugh McIntyre, Senior Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Hugh McIntyre covers music, with a focus on the global charts. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 02:18pm EDT Share Save Comment Deftones’ new single “Milk of the Madonna” races to No. 1 on iTunes, topping major new releases just weeks before the band's tenth album Private Music drops. MILAN, ITALY - APRIL 21: Chino Moreno of American alternative metal band Deftones performs on stage on April 21, 2017 in Milan, Italy. (Photo by Sergione Infuso/Corbis via Getty Images) Corbis via Getty Images Fridays kick off another tracking week in the global music industry, and they’re often crowded with new albums and singles from some of the biggest names in the business. The race to claim the top seller on iTunes or dominate streaming platforms is intense, with pop, rock, and rap acts all aiming for No. 1 on those platforms. This Friday (August 8), one band pulls ahead of a rush of new releases in the United States as the arrival of its highly-anticipated new album draws near. Deftones Rocks Straight to No. 1 Deftones rules the iTunes Top Songs chart in America as of the time of writing. The group’s latest single “Milk of the Madonna” shoots to No. 1 just hours after it was released, becoming the bestselling track in the country on the most important sales platform. “Milk of the Madonna” Leads a Group of New Hits “Milk of the Madonna” is one of five new titles sitting inside the top 10 on the U.S. iTunes tally at the moment. Deftones come in ahead of just-released offerings from Ed Sheeran, Josiah Queen, Gavin Adcock, and Rob Thomas, and several other stars appear just below the No. 10 position. Deftones’ Next Album Arrives This Month The new single serves as the second promotional cut from the band’s upcoming tenth full-length Private Music, which is due August 22. Last month, Deftones dropped “My Mind as a Mountain,” the first taste of the project. That track launched in lofty positions on several Billboard charts, and “Milk of the Madonna” could soon follow with its own splashy debuts. MORE FOR YOU Deftones’ Three-Decade Legacy Continues Formed in Sacramento in the late ’80s, Deftones have built a reputation as one of rock’s most adventurous outfits, blending alt-metal aggression with atmospheric, experimental touches. Throughout the decades, the band has reached the top 10 on the Billboard 200 albums ranking with half a dozen projects, and another big win is likely coming later this month. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video