Trump Pursues Record $1 Billion Settlement From UCLA Over Antisemitism Claims
Breaking Business Trump Pursues Record $1 Billion Settlement From UCLA Over Antisemitism Claims ByAntonio Pequeño IV, Forbes Staff. Pequeño is a breaking news reporter who covers tech and more. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 02:15pm EDTAug 08, 2025, 05:45pm EDT Share Save Comment Topline The Trump administration is pushing for a $1 billion settlement from the University of California Los Angeles over antisemitism allegations, the White House confirmed in an email to Forbes on Friday, marking what could be the highest settlement secured by the administration as it targets funding for several universities where pro-Palestinian protests were held last year. UCLA recently had $584 million in funding suspended by the Trump administration. (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images) Getty Images Key Facts The administration is seeking the $1 billion settlement about a week after it suspended $584 million in UCLA’s funding, according to a letter from UCLA Chancellor Julio Frenk, who said the removal of funding puts “life-saving research” at risk. UCLA officials are negotiating with the Trump administration and looking to have the $584 million in funding restored, according to CNN, which first reported the settlement. In response, the Trump administration has proposed a settlement to UCLA demanding the school pay $1 billion to the federal government through multiple installments, in addition to a $172 million claims fund from those impacted by violations of the Civil Rights Act, CNN reported. UC President James Milliken said in a statement Friday the proposed settlement “would completely devastate” the UC system and suggested it would hinder technologies and medical therapies developed by the system that “save lives, grow the U.S. economy, and protect our national security.” The settlement also includes a requirement for UCLA to employ a senior administrator tasked with keeping the school compliant with anti-discrimination laws, CNN added. Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We’re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day’s headlines. Text “Alerts” to (201) 335-0739 or sign up here. What Other Universities Have Made Settlements With The Trump Administration? Columbia University, which was the initial focal point of the administration’s sweeping antisemitism investigation into American universities, recently settled multiple civil rights investigations from the Department of Education for $221 million. Columbia, which saw about $400 million of its funding frozen amid the investigations, will pay the government $200 million over three years and a separate $21 million to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Columbia said the settlement restored “a vast majority” of the $400 million in funding from the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Health and Human Services. Brown University reached a similar — though far cheaper — settlement last month, agreeing to pay the Trump administration $50 million to restore over $500 million in federal funding initially suspended over antisemitism allegations. Meanwhile, schools such as the University of Pennsylvania have dealt with investigations into their DEI programs and settled with the Trump administration by changing their policies. The University of Pennsylvania, seeking to avoid a loss of federal funding, agreed last month to ban transgender athletes from its women’s sports and strip trans swimmer Lia Thomas of her titles and recognitions. Key Background The antisemitism allegations at the heart of the settlements are linked to pro-Palestinian protests held across a wave of universities last year, demonstrating against Israel’s invasion of Gaza and calling for universities to divest from Israel. Some protests involved encampments and building occupations, the latter of which occurred at Columbia’s Hamilton Hall, resulting in several arrests, probations, suspensions, degree revocations, and expulsions. By this March, the Trump administration said it was investigating 60 colleges over antisemitism allegations and later froze funding for several institutions. It has also demanded changes from the universities, and in the case of Columbia, successfully demanded the school make changes to its mask, security and protest policies. Harvard University has defied the federal government amid the investigations and cuts, challenging in court the Trump administration’s efforts to freeze funding and its attempt to end international student enrollment, which accounted for about 27% of Harvard’s student body in the 2024 to 2025 academic year. Further Reading Columbia Agrees To Trump Administration’s Demands After Losing $400 Million In Federal Funds (Forbes) Columbia Disciplines 70 Over Pro-Palestinian Protests After Pressure From Trump (Forbes) Trump Administration Investigates These 60 Colleges Over Antisemitism Allegations (Forbes) Got a tip? Share confidential information with Forbes. Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video