What To Wear For 5 Memorable Summer Date Night Ideas
Lifestyle Style & Beauty 5 Outfit Ideas To Wear For A Memorable Summer Date Night BySarah Boyd, Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. Sarah Boyd writes about fashion, beauty and influencers. Follow Author Aug 08, 2025, 01:22pm EDTAug 08, 2025, 07:22pm EDT Share Save Comment Planning your next summer date night? Here’s my advice on what to wear and what to do for a fun summer date night! From trusted outfit formulas to romantic scents, here are my styling suggestions for 5 memorable summer date nights. Trendy Restaurant Night Out Trendy Restaurant Night Out Date Night Outfit Date Night Outfit Ideas A black slip dress, gold jewelry, and a touch of red nails are perfect pieces for a night out checking out the trendy new restaurant in town. Bared Footwear Rockfinch Boots Bared Footwear Rockfinch Boots | $389 Bared Footwear I always gravitate to my Rockfinch Boots from Bared Footwear for a night out. These are a wardrobe staple that make every outfit edgier. You’ll have these boots for all your nights out for years to come, and their extreme level of comfort will make you always come back for more. Rumored Dolly Midi Dress Rumored Dolly Midi Dress | $138 Rumored MORE FOR YOU Rumored’s Dolly Midi Dress is the ideal combination of sexy and demure. The lace detail adds a little touch of romance. This dress looks amazing on everyone and is great for a summer night out. Lights Lacquer Cherry Coded Collection Lights Lacquer Cherry Coded Full Collection Bundle | $53 Lights Lacquer A gorgeous manicure is a must-have for a date night out. Add a sexy mani for a complete look with the Cherry Coded Collection from Lights Lacquer. This collection is perfect for a red-hot date night, and you know what they say about red nail theory! Tip: Use the So Clingy Gripping Base Coat for a long-lasting look. Ledda 16 Scenic Rose Eau De Parfum Ledda 16 Scenic Rose Eau De Parfum | $78 Ledda For a playful yet sweet date night scent, Ledda’s 16 Scenic Rose is a lovely choice. This scent is a romantic take on a traditional rose fragrance with subtly sweet notes of strawberry and vanilla. This blend is beautiful and will have you feeling just the same. Baublebar 18K Gold Clara Earrings and Mamie 18K Gold Ring Set Baublebar 18K Gold Clara Earrings ($128) and Mamie 18K Gold Ring Set ($98) Baublebar Finish your look with elegant touches of gold, like these earrings and rings from Baublebar’s Demi-Fine Jewelry line. The oval pavé earrings are a modern twist on a familiar style, and you can mix and match the textured gold rings together or with other pieces from your collection. Drive-In Movie Drive-In Movie Date Night Outfit Drive-In Movie Date Night Outfit Nothing beats a throwback evening at the drive-in during the summer. Style yourself in a look that’s cute and laid-back, like a fun pair of flared jeans and a body-hugging hoodie. Hudson Jodie High Rise Loose Fit Wide Leg Jean With Frayed Seams Hudson Jodie High Rise Loose Fit Wide Leg Jean With Frayed Seams | $245 Hudson These are the “it” jeans of summer! The lightweight denim means this baggy style won’t weigh you down on a warm summer night. The seamed design creates a sexy vintage look that looks amazing with any fitted top. TA3 Corsety Hoodie and Sweetie Long Sleeve Top TA3 Corsety Hoodie ($148) and Sweetie Long Sleeve Top ($128) TA3 Pair your new favorite jeans with a sexy top from TA3. I love the Corsety Hoodie for a comfy look that’s still sexy. The hood is perfect if it gets a little chilly. Or go for an even flirtier look with the Sweetie Long Sleeve Top that hugs all the right places in a romantic floral print. Venus Et Fleur The Fleur Frame Venus Et Fleur The Fleur Frame | $328 Venus Et Fleur Commemorate the evening by stopping at a photo booth, or print out a photo of you and your S.O. to put in one of Venus et Fleur’s gorgeous frames. The Mini Fleur Frame is perfect for an Instax picture, or choose The Fleur Frame for a full-sized print. You’ll remember that special evening every time you see these beautiful rose frames for years to come. Mooncat Welcome To Paradise Collection Mooncat Welcome To Paradise Collection | $149 Mooncat Give your nails a technicolor flair with these captivating nail polishes from Mooncat. From glittering holographic hues to color-changing polishes, these are eye-catching colors that will have your date asking all about them. The new magnetic and metallic formulas are so innovative, and I always find that Mooncat’s polishes last a long time. My current date night favorite of the collection is the hot pink metallic holographic shade, Ego Stroker 9000. Is there a sexier polish out there? Valentino Born in Roma Donna Eau de Parfum Intense Valentino Born in Roma Donna Eau de Parfum Intense | $185 Valentino Beauty Valentino’s Born in Roma Donna Eau de Parfum Intense is the ultimate date night fragrance. It embodies confidence and will leave you feeling sexier from the moment you wear it. This is guaranteed to get you compliments, and not just from your S.O. Bonus: gift him the Uomo version, and you two will be the best-smelling couple at the drive-in. DeMellier The Siena Saddle DeMellier The Siena Saddle | $535 DeMellier This is a great crossbody purse from DeMellier that will fit everything you need while walking to and from the concession stand. I love that it features both a crossbody strap and top handle for different ways to style it, and the brown color is great for a more casual look. Art Lovers Evening Art Lovers Evening Date Night Outfit Art Lovers Evening Date Night Outfit Dolce Vita Southampton Store Dolce Vita In the Hamptons this summer? Start your evening by stopping by Dolce Vita’s Southampton store for a blend of fashion and art. Through August, you’ll be able to view their Summer Art Series, curated by Down the Street, and kickstart (literally, if you’re wearing a pair of Dolce Vita shoes) your artsy evening. Then head out to gallery openings and enjoy a romantic evening filled with culture! Dolce Vita Prya Shoulder Bag Dolce Vita Prya Shoulder Bag Dolce Vita Tote a chic Dolce Vita purse to their gallery and beyond. I love the sculptural shape of this purse, which makes it not only stylish but comfortable to carry as well. I can also change up the handle length for extra customization. And of course, it fits everything I need while out and about. Artless Forever Vest Kaia Zip Vest and Kaia Skort Artless Forever Kaia Zip Vest ($94) and Kaia Skort ($94) Artless Forever Artless Forever makes gorgeous, high-quality clothing that I know will make me look amazing as well. This mini skort is so flattering, it works on any body type. The vest is a versatile piece that can be worn open over a tank or zipped up for a more sophisticated look while walking around a gallery. Heaven Mayhem Prize Cream Earrings and Julia Necklace Heaven Mayhem Prize Cream Earrings ($90) and Julia Necklace ($120) Heaven Mayhem Accessorize your look with equally artistic jewelry pieces from Heaven Mayhem. Their Prize earrings are perfect to add modern sophistication to your outfit, and the Julia Necklace is another staple piece that’s popular for a good reason! You’ll get so many compliments wearing it with its stunning minimalist design. Prada Paradoxe Radical Essence Parfum Prada Beauty Paradoxe Radical Essence Parfum | $205 Prada Beauty Prada’s new Paradoxe is the most unique gourmand fragrance. It is a gorgeous blend of creamy salted pistachio with a soft neroli note and an added warmth of sandalwood. Smell delicious in this one-of-a-kind fragrance that exudes wife material. Fancy Dinner At Home Fancy Dinner At Home Date Night Outfit Fancy Dinner At Home Date Night Outfit Who says you have to leave the house to get dressed up? Enjoy a gourmet dinner at home with the help of a meal kit service like Green Chef and dress to impress! Favorite Daughter The Favorite Linen Dress Favorite Daughter The Favorite Linen Dress | $298 Favorite Daughter There’s nothing more versatile for date night than a perfect black dress. This one from Favorite Daughter is made of linen, so it’s ideal for those hot summer nights, and I love how easy it is to transform this dress for a number of occasions with some strategic accessorizing. Emi Jay Big Effing Clip Emi Jay Big Effing Clip In Wild Cherry | $42 Emi Jay While you’re cooking and lounging at home, clip up your hair in style with one of Emi Jay’s iconic hair clips. This one features adorable cherries just as sweet as your date night! To prep for date night, I love using the Heavenly Hair Milk as well. It smoothes out any frizz from the summer humidity, so I can feel confident my hair looks good. Green Chef Green Chef Sesame-Ginger Bavette Steak & Shrimp Green Chef For the at-home chefs, Green Chef makes date night easy with their meal kits. This is a perfect way to spend time with your partner on date night. All the ingredients you need for an amazing meal are included, and the instructions are simple and easy to follow. Set aside an evening to prepare and enjoy a healthy meal together. Magic Hour Tea Cosmic Gemstone Apothecary Gift Set Magic Hour Tea Cosmic Gemstone Apothecary Gift Set | $139 Magic Hour End your date night with a luxurious cup of tea. The experience of a cup of Magic Hour Tea is the best way to unwind before bed. Brew a pot of one of their caffeine-free blends for you and your partner after dinner and enjoy some quality time together. My favorite set for summer is the Cancer & Peridot! Skylar Wild Oolong Skylar Wild Oolong | $20 Skylar For my tea lovers, there’s nothing better than a perfume that encompasses the comfort of a warm cup of tea. Skylar’s new Wild Oolong fragrance does just that! With notes of oolong tea, bourbon, and sandalwood, this is perfect to spice up your look for a dinner date at home. Cozy Night At Home Cozy Night At Home Date Night Outfit Cozy Night At Home Date Night Outfit Sometimes, nothing beats a laid-back evening in with the one you love. Throw on your cutest lounge set and indulge in savory and sweet treats. Goldie Tee Pointelle Pointelle Tee and Ellie Flare Pant Goldie Tee Pointelle Pointelle Tee ($90) and Ellie Flare Pant ($150) Goldie Tee Goldie Lewinter’s pointelle sets are a great choice for a date night in. The pointelle design gives this set a soft look that is the romantic alternative to a sweat set. It’s made of the softest cotton, making it perfect for a comfy night at home while still looking adorable. Fishwife Summertime Art Box Fishwife Summertime Art Box | $54 Fishwife If cooking at home isn’t your forte, Fishwife’s Summertime Art Box is the cutest date night idea. Snack on tasty tuna and trout while having a blast coloring the boxes! Pair with your favorite white wine or spritz for a delicious combo. Hourglass Unlocked Instant Extensions Mascara Hourglass Unlocked Instant Extensions Mascara | $33 Hourglass A reliable mascara is such a necessity for a date night. I love the new espresso color of Hourglass’s tubing mascara. It lasts all night without smudging on me at all, and it’s easy to remove with warm water. This is the only makeup I need for a relaxed date night at home! L’Occitane Almond Body Care Trio L’Occitane Almond Body Care Trio | $159 L’Occitane This set is my secret to soft skin. I have yet to find a product that performs as well as L’Occitane’s Almond Shower Oil. It has such a luxurious consistency, so a little goes a long way, and it leaves my skin so soft right out of the shower. I follow this up with the Almond Supple Skin Oil, then add the deliciously scented Almond Milk Concentrate (seriously, this is that girl of almond gourmand scents). Trust me, this trio will make you look and smell edible! Phlur Rose Whip Fragrance Duet Phlur Rose Whip Fragrance Duet | $111 Phlur This is the perfect scent for a night out or in. It layers so well with post-shower products. I love wearing this for a cozy date night in when I want to smell dangerously romantic. This is a beautifully done fragrance that captivates a darker side of rose. I pack the travel size with me on trips for my night out scent. Ninja Swirl™ by CREAMi® Soft Serve & Ice Cream Machine Ninja Swirl™ by CREAMi® Soft Serve & Ice Cream Machine | $349 Ninja For the sweetest ending to your date night, treat yourself and your partner to a frozen dessert from the Ninja Swirl™! I’m obsessed with making my own froyo at home, and it’s always a hit after a long day. This appliance has single-handedly saved the day when one of us is having a sweet craving. And what’s more romantic than sharing a milkshake with two straws? Editorial StandardsReprints & Permissions LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video