Ross County chief on challenges of a Highland club
Ross County chief on challenges of a Highland club 1 day ago Share Save Steven McKenzie BBC Highlands and Islands reporter Share Save SNS Ross County chief executive Steven Ferguson said the club had invested in players capable of winning the Championship Ross County chief executive Steven Ferguson says being based in the Highlands can be a challenge but believes the club successfully attracts quality players north. The population of the Staggies' hometown of Dingwall is smaller than its stadium's capacity of 6,634 fans. Inverness aside, the nearest cities - Aberdeen and Perth - are more than 120 miles away, while Glasgow and Edinburgh are almost 200 miles down the road. Ferguson told BBC Scotland Sport it was a “huge challenge" geographically, adding: "But it is one we cannot change. We are where we are." Watch: Scottish Championship - Ikpeazu secures win for St Johnstone over Ross County Ross County relegated: How will it affect people and businesses in Dingwall? Ross County were relegated from the Scottish Premiership to the Championship last season. Speaking at half time on Friday during County's televised home game against former Premiership rivals St Johnstone, Ferguson was asked about the challenges of being based in the Highlands. He was reminded that County's footballing neighbours, Inverness Caledonian Thistle, considered moving its base 136 miles south to Fife to be nearer central belt players before scrapping the plan. Ferguson said: "We understand our importance to this area. They love their football up here. They are passionate about their club. "We just need to show that same passion we get from our community." He said County believed it had assembled a good squad. "I would be wrong to say that anything other than winning the league is good enough because we have invested in a group of players we believe is good enough to win the league," he said. Ferguson added: "We are bedding in a lot of players. "It does take a little bit of time - a lot of players are moving to the Highlands. It is a different environment for them. They accept all that." SNS A goal from Uche Ikpeazu secured a 1-0 win for St Johnstone at Dingwall BBC Scotland Sport pundit and former Hearts captain Michael Stewart agreed Highland clubs faced significant challenges recruiting players. He said: "We are a very central belt focused nation, and there is no doubt about that. "It does become difficult to get players up here, but I guarantee you and I'm sure Steven Ferguson will tell you this - once they are up here they won't want to be leaving because it is a wonderful place to be - it really is. "There is a different pace to life, but it (Ross County) is a very important club for the Highlands." St Johnstone won the game 1-0 with a goal from Uche Ikpeazu. Dingwall Inverness Related Parents praise support centre as 'beacon of hope' Overnight work for up to 20 weeks on A9 crossing People using railway bridge as 'dangerous shortcut' More from the BBC 2 days ago Dog saved after 30m plunge from cliff at waterfall Coastguard teams from the Highlands and Moray were sent to Falls of Foyers. 2 days ago 3 days ago New name for Inverness Caledonian Thistle's stadium An engineering firm working in the offshore renewables sector has secured the naming rights. 3 days ago 3 days ago Charity set to take over Inverness' oldest church The Old High on the city's riverside has been on the market since 2022. 3 days ago 4 days ago North's biggest farm show escapes storm disruption The 186th Black Isle Show is to take place in Muir of Ord in the Highlands. 4 days ago 6 days ago In pictures: 21st Belladrum Tartan Heart Festival The weekend included performances by Supergrass, Natasha Beddingfield, Peter Capaldi and CMAT. 6 days ago