[Jonathan H. Adler] Seventh Circuit Upholds Indiana Alcohol Laws Without a Majority Opinion
The Volokh Conspiracy Mostly law professors | Sometimes contrarian | Often libertarian | Always independent About The Volokh Conspiracy Editorial Independence Who we are Books Volokh Daily Email Archives DMCA RSS Seventh Circuit Upholds Indiana Alcohol Laws Without a Majority Opinion After one judge died, the two remaining judges could not agree on why the state should prevail. Jonathan H. Adler | 8.8.2025 10:15 PM This week, in Chicago Wine Co. v. Braun, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed a district court decision rejecting a constitutional challenge to an Indiana law barring out-of-state retailers from shipping wine to customers in Indiana. Yet there is no majority opinion of the court. The case was initially heard by a panel consisting of Judges Kanne, Eaterbrook, and Scudder. After Judge Kanne's death, Judges Easterbrook and Scudder could not agree on why the state should prevail, so the court issued a per curiam noting that the district court was affirmed, and each judge issued an opinion explaining his reasons why that should be. Dormant commerce clause doctrine is not known for its clarity (nor, some would say, its consistency). This judgment by the Seventh Circuit would seem to support that opinion. Start your day with Reason. Get a daily brief of the most important stories and trends every weekday morning when you subscribe to Reason Roundup. Δ Email(Required) Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Subscribe NEXT: Friday Open Thread Jonathan H. Adler (@jadler1969) is the Tazewell Taylor Professor of Law at the William & Mary Law School and a senior fellow at the Property and Environment Research Center. Share on FacebookShare on XShare on RedditShare by emailPrint friendly versionCopy page URL Media Contact & Reprint Requests Show Comments (27) Latest Child Protective Services Investigated Her 4 Times Because She Let Her Kids Play Outside Lenore Skenazy | 8.9.2025 7:00 AM Religious Dissenters Fled Holland (The Netherlands) and Established Holland (Michigan) Stephanie Slade | From the August/September 2025 issue They Fled Socialism and Came to the U.S. Legally. Now the Trump Administration Is Trying To Deport Them. Billy Binion | 8.8.2025 5:19 PM A Terrible Environmental Law Finally Did Something Good: It Paused Construction of Alligator Alcatraz Autumn Billings | 8.8.2025 4:28 PM From Terror Sanctions to Military Strikes? Trump's Cartel Policy Sidesteps Congress Matthew Petti | 8.8.2025 2:15 PM Recommended