PSG expect bids for Donnarumma - Saturday's gossip
PSG expect bids for Donnarumma - Saturday's gossip Image gallerySkip image gallery Image source, The Times Image caption, Times back page Image source, The Star Image caption, Star back page Image source, The Mirror Image caption, The Mirror back page Image source, The i Image caption, The i back page Image source, The Express Image caption, The Express back page 1 of 5 Previous image Next image Slide 1 of 5, Times back page, Times back page End of image gallery Published 8 August 2025 Updated 9 August 2025 Paris St-Germain expect offers for Gianluigi Donnarumma, Newcastle are set to make improved bid for Yoane Wissa and open talks over move for Randal Kolo Muani. Paris St-Germain expect offers from Chelsea, Manchester United or Inter Milan for Italy goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma, 26, who has become surplus to requirements at the French club. (ESPN), external Newcastle are set to make an improved bid of £30m for Brentford's 28-year-old DR Congo forward Yoane Wissa. (Times - subscription required), external Newcastle have opened talks with PSG over a deal for 26-year-old France striker Randal Kolo Muani. (Florian Plettenberg), external The Magpies are also considering a move for Porto and Spain striker Samu Aghehowa, 21, to reinforce their attack. (Athletic - subscription required), external Senegal forward Nicolas Jackson, 24, would prefer to stay in the Premier League if he leaves Chelsea this summer with Newcastle a possible destination. (Sun), external Jackson would like to explore a transfer away from Chelsea this month, with AC Milan and Juventus also interested in signing him. (Mail), external Crystal Palace striker Jean-Philippe Mateta, 28, is top of Atalanta's transfer list and the Serie A side could offer up to 40m euros (£29.7m) for the Frenchman next week. (Football Italia), external Atalanta and Nigeria forward Ademola Lookman, 27, is determined to move to Inter Milan, despite being offered to Premier League clubs. (Gazzetta dello Sport - in Italian), external Manchester United will look to sign a defensive midfielder and a goalkeeper now they have finalised their pursuit of Slovenia striker Benjamin Sesko, 22, from RB Leipzig. (Telegraph - subscription required) , external Southampton are holding out for at least £50m for their England Under-21 winger Tyler Dibling, 19, with Everton hoping to do a deal. (Liverpool Echo), external French side Lille are targeting a loan move for Spurs' Czech goalkeeper Antonin Kinsky. The 22-year-old is on their radar should current first-choice stopper, Frenchman Lucas Chevalier, 23, join PSG. (L'Equipe - in French), external Brentford are interested in signing Bournemouth winger Dango Ouattara. The 23-year-old Burkina Faso international made 32 Premier League appearances for the Cherries last season. (Sky Sports), external Newly promoted Leeds United are interested in 20-year-old Brighton midfielder Facundo Buonanotte. The Argentina international is also wanted by Borussia Dortmund. (Yorkshire Evening Post), external Al-Nassr have made an offer to Bayern Munich winger Kingsley Coman, 29, but the France international has yet to make a decision over the move as the German club await a bid. (Sky Sport Germany), external Related topics Football More on this story All your football quizzes in one place Listen to the latest Football Daily podcast Follow your club with BBC Sport Published 3 June