Woman dies after lifeboat rescues her from sea
Woman dies after lifeboat rescues her from sea 1 day ago Share Save Naj Modak BBC News Share Save Supplied A coastguard helicopter landing on Skegness beach A woman in her 60s has died after getting into difficulty in the sea off Skegness beach. The RNLI said a lifeboat was scrambled as part of a major search. A coastguard helicopter and an air ambulance were also deployed. The woman was rescued from the water at about 17:30 BST. Lincolnshire Police said she was brought back to shore "but sadly died". Supplied The inshore lifeboat during the incident off Skegness beach earlier A spokesperson for the force added: "Her next of kin are aware. Our thoughts are with her family and friends at this difficult time." A coastguard helicopter could be seen circling the area before landing on the beach along with the Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire Air Ambulance at about 17:45. Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices Related internet links RNLI RNLI Skegness UK coastguards Related Wind and tide warning after six rescues in an hour Surrey couple visit 164 RNLI lifeboat stations Warning after paddleboarders swept out to sea More from the BBC 19 hrs ago NHS well prepared for influx of summer visitors Health chiefs say they have no concerns about the impact of summer visitors on local care. 19 hrs ago 4 days ago Warning after two teens rescued from rocky ledge Luckily, a member of the public spotted the boys and called 999. 4 days ago 5 days ago 'I'm terrified of going out after wasp attack' Alison Riley, 34, says she was left in "absolutely agony" after being stung more than 100 times. 5 days ago 6 days ago Lifeboat crew targeted with laser during search Police say the incident off the coast of Skegness was serious and could lead to a prison sentence. 6 days ago 6 days ago Man in court on murder charge after resort death The trial of Aston Harris, 19, who denies the charge, is due to start early next year. 6 days ago