[Mark Movsesian] The Collapse of Consent
The Volokh Conspiracy Mostly law professors | Sometimes contrarian | Often libertarian | Always independent About The Volokh Conspiracy Editorial Independence Who we are Books Volokh Daily Email Archives DMCA RSS The Collapse of Consent Can "Consent of the Governed" Sustain a Fractured Society? Mark Movsesian | 8.5.2025 11:32 AM On the latest episode of Legal Spirits, I speak with legal scholar Steve Smith (University of San Diego) about a foundational principle of American law and politics: "the consent of the governed." That phrase, which goes back to the Declaration of Independence, has long served as a central justification for our constitutional order. Our government is legitimate, we tell ourselves, because, as a free people, we have agreed to it. But in a society that is politically polarized, can consent still do the work that is required of it? Can we continue to ground legal and political authority in a story that fewer and fewer Americans believe? Drawing on his new paper, The Collapse of Consent, Steve and I explore how the idea of consent has shifted over time—from a condition that limited a government that was itself based on God-given or natural rights to a secular source of legitimacy that stands on its own. Consent was always a legal fiction, Steve argues--but it's no longer as "truish" as it once was, in a time of cultural fragmentation and institutional mistrust. Steve and I also talk about some intellectual trends that have contributed to the breakdown in the concept of consent, including the rise of critical and identitarian theories in the academy and polarization in political life. We also ask what might come next. Is technocracy the new paradigm? Integralism? You can listen to the full episode here. Start your day with Reason. Get a daily brief of the most important stories and trends every weekday morning when you subscribe to Reason Roundup. Δ Email(Required) Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Subscribe NEXT: Religious Hiring and Title VII's Religious Exemption Mark Movsesian is the Frederick A. Whitney Professor of Contract Law and the Director of the Center for Law and Religion at St. John's University School of Law. He writes and teaches in law and religion, contracts and international and comparative law. Share on FacebookShare on XShare on RedditShare by emailPrint friendly versionCopy page URL Media Contact & Reprint Requests Show Comments (52) Latest Child Protective Services Investigated Her 4 Times Because She Let Her Kids Play Outside Lenore Skenazy | 8.9.2025 7:00 AM Religious Dissenters Fled Holland (The Netherlands) and Established Holland (Michigan) Stephanie Slade | From the August/September 2025 issue They Fled Socialism and Came to the U.S. Legally. Now the Trump Administration Is Trying To Deport Them. Billy Binion | 8.8.2025 5:19 PM A Terrible Environmental Law Finally Did Something Good: It Paused Construction of Alligator Alcatraz Autumn Billings | 8.8.2025 4:28 PM From Terror Sanctions to Military Strikes? Trump's Cartel Policy Sidesteps Congress Matthew Petti | 8.8.2025 2:15 PM Recommended