What Israel's Gaza City takeover plan could mean for Palestinians
What Israel's Gaza City takeover plan could mean for Palestinians Israel has approved a plan to take control of Gaza City, which it says is part of its strategy to end the war. BBC Verify has been looking at what this could mean for Palestinians still living in the city, many already displaced by the fighting. Reha Kansara has more. Verification by Paul Brown, Joshua Cheetham and Daniele Palumbo. Produced by Mohamed Shalaby. Design by Sally Nicholls. 1 day ago Middle East Israel-Gaza war Israel Gaza Hamas Share Save Former Mossad official details how Israel eliminated Iran's military elite The former deputy chief of the Israeli intelligence explains how technology and innovation played a key role for Israel in the 12-day conflict. 5 Jul 2025 Middle East 'Iran pulses with anger and even deeper grief', says BBC's Lyse Doucet Lyse Doucet witnesses a mass state funeral for prominent figures killed in the recent conflict with Israel. 28 Jun 2025 Middle East BBC inside Iran state TV building hit by Israeli missile strike The BBC's Lyse Doucet reports from the ruins of an Iranian state TV building hit during the conflict with Israel. 26 Jun 2025 Middle East Nato boss commends 'daddy' Trump's handling of Israel-Iran conflict Mark Rutte appears to approve of the US president's strong language when Trump spoke about the warring nations on Tuesday. 25 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: BBC's Lyse Doucet reports from Iran on the ceasefire with Israel Lyse Doucet reports from the streets of Tehran, where she says things are staring to return to normal. 25 Jun 2025 Middle East Trump in angry outburst aimed at Israel and Iran The US president expressed his frustration at the conduct of the two nations. 24 Jun 2025 Middle East 'It took a direct hit' - BBC at scene of Beersheba missile strike At least four people were killed when an Iranian missile hit a residential building, Israeli officials say. 24 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: Video shows aftermath of Israeli strikes on Iran Footage has emerged showing smoke billowing over Tehran and the city of Karaj, west of the capital. 23 Jun 2025 Middle East Netanyahu and Trump 'totally aligned' on Iran - Barkat The Israeli minister tells the BBC that his PM and the US president have been collaborating "from day one". 23 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: Iranian missile blast caught on dashcam in Israel The missile appeared to strike near a power station in the city of Ashdod. 23 Jun 2025 Middle East Satellite images and decoy planes: Behind the US attacks on Iran It took months of planning and included over 125 planes, a submarine and 14 "bunker buster" bombs. BBC Verify explains how the US mission "Operation Midnight Hammer" took place. 22 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: The US has joined the Iran-Israel war. What happens now? The BBC's world news correspondent Joe Inwood answers three key questions after the US strikes in Iran. 22 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: BBC reports from site of Iranian missile attack in Tel Aviv Emergency workers raced to clear rubble from the site of an Iranian missile attack in the Tel Aviv. 22 Jun 2025 Middle East BBC on the scene at Israeli hospital struck by Iranian missile The BBC's Lucy Williamson is outside Soroka Hospital in Beersheba, in the south of the country, as emergency workers assess the scene. 19 Jun 2025 Middle East Ros Atkins on... How close is Iran to a nuclear weapon? Israel's Prime Minister has long warned that Iran is close to developing nuclear weapons. BBC Verify's Ros Atkins explains what we know about its programme. 18 Jun 2025 Middle East How one US weapon could change the course of the Israel-Iran conflict Iran's Fordo nuclear site is one of the most heavily fortified. There's only one conventional weapon that could destroy it - and only the US is known to have it. 17 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: Huge traffic queues as people flee Iranian capital Videos posted on social media show queues for fuel and gridlocked traffic as people try to leave Tehran. 16 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: BBC at the site of Iranian attack in Israel The BBC's Middle East correspondent Hugo Bachega is in Petah Tikva, where an Iranian missile struck a building overnight. 16 Jun 2025 Middle East Watch: Explosions and damage across Israel as Iran launches fresh air strikes Five people have been killed and dozens injured, according to Israel's national emergency service. 16 Jun 2025 Middle East Israeli paramedics on the ground of missile strike in Haifa Footage from Reuters news agency and The Associated Press shows burning cars after a missile strike in the Israeli city of Haifa. 15 Jun 2025 Middle East