Rockets race to comfortable win over Phoenix
Rockets race to comfortable win over Phoenix To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. This video can not be played Media caption, Trent Rockets get off to perfect start with simple win - Highlights Sam Drury BBC Sport journalist Published 8 August 2025 335 Comments The Hundred men's competition, Edgbaston Birmingham Phoenix 122-6 (100 balls): Livingstone 39 (30); Ferguson 3-20 Trent Rockets 123-4 (78 balls): Banton 43 (29); Howell 2-25 Rockets won by six wickets Scorecard. Table Trent Rockets cruised to a six-wicket victory over Birmingham Phoenix to get off to a winning start in The Hundred. The Rockets' victory was built on a sterling bowling display with New Zealand fast bowler Lockie Ferguson taking 3-20. A 63-run stand between captain Liam Livingstone and Joe Clarke helped Phoenix recover from 26-4 but their 122-6 was never likely to trouble the visitors. England star Joe Root was bowled early in the chase but it did little to slow the Rockets' charge. Opener Tom Banton top-scored with 43 and put on 51 with Rehan Ahmed, who made an entertaining 25 from 16 balls, before an Adam Hose boundary got the 2022 champions over the line with 22 balls to spare. The Hundred 2025 - fixtures, results & reports Published 9 hours ago Sciver-Brunt's 64 in vain as Phoenix beat Rockets Published 1 day ago The Hundred 2025: Full squad lists Published 1 day ago Rockets make early statement in impressive showing To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. This video can not be played Media caption, Root makes just six as he's bowled by Tim Southee It may only be one game but the Rockets look like they could be a force this year. Every facet of their game was on point with plans executed superbly as they swept aside Phoenix at Edgbaston. A power-packed Phoenix top-order was taken apart as the pace bowlers got the new ball swinging - David Willey bowling Ben Duckett before Ferguson pinned Aneurin Donald lbw with a brilliant in-swinging yorker. Even as Livingstone and Clarke rebuilt for the hosts, the Rockets bowlers stuck to their plans with the seamers using slower balls into the pitch to good effect to keep the run-rate in check. It left them with a modest chase, the kind of thing Root is perfect for but his early departure gave Banton and Rehan a chance to shine. Neither are accumulators in the style of England's all-time leading run-scorer but they were smart in when they chose to unleash their blistering attacking shots as they broke the back of the chase. With Marcus Stoinis, Willey and Hose also in the line-up there is no shortage of power in the Rockets line-up, while in Root and Max Holden there is nous too. They will face tougher challenges but the early signs are good for Andy Flower's side. To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. This video can not be played Media caption, Root Unlocked - go inside England batsman's phone What is happening on Saturday? We've got four games for you on Saturday with double-headers at The Oval and in Cardiff. Oval Invincibles host Manchester Originals (11:00/14:30 BST) and you can follow ball-by-ball commentary on BBC Radio 5 Sports Extra, BBC Sounds and the BBC Sport website and app. Meanwhile Welsh Fire will welcome London Spirit (14:30/18:00 BST) and you will also be able to watch both of those games live on BBC Two and BBC iPlayer. Related topics Franchise Cricket The Hundred Cricket More on this story Get cricket news sent straight to your phone Published 31 January Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser View comments | 335