[Eugene Volokh] Luke Goodrich (Becket Fund) Guest-Blogging This Week About Religious Hiring Beyond the Ministerial Exception
The Volokh Conspiracy Mostly law professors | Sometimes contrarian | Often libertarian | Always independent About The Volokh Conspiracy Editorial Independence Who we are Books Volokh Daily Email Archives DMCA RSS Religion and the Law Luke Goodrich (Becket Fund) Guest-Blogging This Week About "Religious Hiring Beyond the Ministerial Exception" Eugene Volokh | 8.4.2025 11:59 AM I'm delighted to report that Luke Goodrich of the Becket Fund—one of the most prominent, successful, and ecumenical religious liberty litigation groups in the country—will be guest-blogging this week about his forthcoming Notre Dame Law Review article, Religious Hiring Beyond the Ministerial Exception: Can a religious school fire its secretary for entering a same-sex marriage? Under the First Amendment's "ministerial exception," religious employers have a constitutional right to select their "ministers"—broadly defined to include individuals who perform important religious functions. But what about an employee, like a secretary, who is not a minister? Do religious groups have any legal protections for hiring non-ministers? This Article provides a comprehensive taxonomy of legal protections for the religious hiring of non-ministers. It analyzes six protections. Three are statutory: (1) Title VII's religious exemption, (2) Title VII's bona fide occupational qualification exception; and (3) the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Three are constitutional: (4) the church autonomy doctrine, (5) the freedom of expressive association, and (6) the Free Exercise Clause. For each protection, the Article examines the leading caselaw (where it exists), analyzes the arguments for and against the protection, and identifies key unanswered questions. The result is a much-needed roadmap of an emerging legal issue of great importance to scholars, jurists, and practitioners alike. After providing this roadmap, the Article addresses the deeper problem of determining which legal doctrines offer the best "fit" for protecting the religious hiring of non-ministers. As the Article explains, Title VII's religious exemption offers strong statutory protection for the religious hiring of non-ministers. But recent developments in state law are taking that statutory protection off the table in some cases, forcing courts to grapple with thorny constitutional questions that neither courts nor commentators have yet explored. I'm much looking forward to his posts. Start your day with Reason. Get a daily brief of the most important stories and trends every weekday morning when you subscribe to Reason Roundup. Δ Email(Required) Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Subscribe NEXT: The Justice Department's Dubious Attempt to Erase a Police Officer's Federal Excessive Force Conviction Eugene Volokh is the Thomas M. Siebel Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, and the Gary T. Schwartz Distinguished Professor of Law Emeritus and Distinguished Research Professor at UCLA School of Law. Naturally, his posts here (like the opinions of the other bloggers) are his own, and not endorsed by any institution. Religion and the Law Share on FacebookShare on XShare on RedditShare by emailPrint friendly versionCopy page URL Media Contact & Reprint Requests Show Comments (1) Latest Child Protective Services Investigated Her 4 Times Because She Let Her Kids Play Outside Lenore Skenazy | 8.9.2025 7:00 AM Religious Dissenters Fled Holland (The Netherlands) and Established Holland (Michigan) Stephanie Slade | From the August/September 2025 issue They Fled Socialism and Came to the U.S. Legally. Now the Trump Administration Is Trying To Deport Them. Billy Binion | 8.8.2025 5:19 PM A Terrible Environmental Law Finally Did Something Good: It Paused Construction of Alligator Alcatraz Autumn Billings | 8.8.2025 4:28 PM From Terror Sanctions to Military Strikes? Trump's Cartel Policy Sidesteps Congress Matthew Petti | 8.8.2025 2:15 PM Recommended