Israel rejects international criticism of Gaza City takeover plan
Israel rejects international criticism of Gaza City takeover plan 1 day ago Share Save Jaroslav Lukiv BBC News Share Save Reuters Benjamin Netanyahu's office says a newly adopted five-point plan is aimed "defeating Hamas" and "concluding the war" Israel has strongly rejected criticism from world leaders after its security cabinet approved a plan to take control of Gaza City. Defence Minister Israel Katz said countries that condemned Israel and threatened sanctions would "not weaken our resolve". "Our enemies will find us as one strong, united fist that will strike them with great force," he added. Israel's decision to expand its war in Gaza sparked condemnation from the UN and several countries including the UK, France and Canada, and prompted Germany to halt military exports to Israel. The plan, approved by the Israeli security cabinet, lists five "principles" for ending the war: disarming Hamas, returning all hostages, demilitarising the Gaza Strip, taking security control of the territory, and establishing "an alternative civil administration that is neither Hamas nor the Palestinian Authority". Reports in Israeli media say the plan initially focuses on taking full control of Gaza City, relocating its estimated one million residents further south. Forces would also take control of refugee camps in central Gaza and areas where hostages are thought to be held. A second offensive would follow weeks later in parallel with a boost in humanitarian aid, media say. The move to escalate the conflict has drawn fierce opposition from some within Israel, including from military officials and the families of hostages being held in Gaza. Hamas has said the plan to occupy Gaza City "constitutes a new war crime" and will "cost [Israel] dearly". On Friday, foreign ministers from the UK, Germany, Italy, New Zealand and Australia released a joint statement rejecting the plan, saying it would "aggravate" the already "catastrophic" situation in Gaza. "Any attempts at annexation or of settlement extension violate international law," they added. UN human rights chief Volker Turk warned that further escalation would "result in more massive forced displacement, more killing, more unbearable suffering, senseless destruction and atrocity crimes". In other reaction: UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer called the move "wrong", saying it would "only bring more bloodshed" Australia's Foreign Minister Penny Wong urged Israel "not to go down this path", saying it would "only worsen the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza" Turkey's foreign ministry urged the world community to prevent Israel's plan which aimed to "forcibly displace Palestinians from their own land" In China, a foreign ministry spokesperson told AFP news agency: "Gaza belongs to the Palestinian people and is an inseparable part of Palestinian territory". Netanyahu told German Chancellor Friedrich Merz he was disappointed with Berlin's decision to suspend arms exports to Israel, saying it was "rewarding Hamas terrorism". What we know about Israel's plan to take over Gaza City Netanyahu divides Israelis and allies with plan for new military push in Gaza Israel's Gaza escalation 'means abandoning hostages', families say In Israel itself, families of the remaining hostages in Gaza have warned that the lives of the 20 believed to have survived will be put in peril. The Hostages Families Forum Headquarters said the decision was leading "toward a colossal catastrophe for both the hostages and our soldiers". The US has been less critical. On Tuesday, President Donald Trump said it was "pretty much up to Israel" whether to fully occupy the Gaza Strip. Watch: 'Chilling' aerial video shows Gaza in ruins The IDF currently controls about three-quarters of Gaza, and almost all of its 2.1 million citizens are situated in the quarter of the territory that the military does not control. The UN estimates some 87% of Gaza is either in militarised zones or under evacuation orders. There are areas in central Gaza and along the Mediterranean coast that Israel does not occupy, according to the UN. These include refugee camps, where much of Gaza's population is now living after their homes were destroyed by Israel's military action. The vast majority of Gaza's population has already been displaced by the war, many people several times over. The war has created a humanitarian disaster in Gaza, most of which UN-backed experts say is at the point of famine. The territory is also experiencing mass deprivation as a result of heavy restrictions imposed by Israel on what is allowed in - something it says is aimed at weakening Hamas. The head of the World Health Organization, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said July was the worst month for cases of acute malnutrition in children in Gaza, affecting nearly 12,000 under the age of five. The war began after Hamas attacked Israel on 7 October 2023, killing about 1,200 people and taking 251 back to Gaza as hostages. Israel launched a massive military offensive in response, which has killed at least 61,158 Palestinians, according to Gaza's health ministry. Middle East Israel & the Palestinians Israel-Gaza war Israel Gaza Hamas Benjamin Netanyahu Related What Israel's Gaza City takeover plan could mean for Palestinians Israel and the Palestinians: History of the conflict explained 'It's become a game for Israel': Gaza City residents fear takeover plans More from the BBC 3 hrs ago Thousands protest in Jerusalem over Israel's Gaza City occupation plan BBC correspondent Emir Nader speaks to demonstrators against the Israel's plans for Gaza, including a former soldier who says he no longer supports the government. 3 hrs ago 15 hrs ago Eleven more die from malnutrition in Gaza, Hamas-run health ministry says Others were reported killed by Israeli operations, as an upcoming deadline for the evacuation of Gaza City has been reported. 15 hrs ago 22 hrs ago 'I remain trapped,' says Gaza student in UK visa plea Haia Mohammed is ready to take up a scholarship in London but is unable to finish the visa process. 22 hrs ago 1 day ago Nagasaki mayor warns of nuclear war 80 years after atomic bomb attack Shiro Suzuki calls for a halt to armed conflicts on the anniversary of the atom bomb attack. 1 day ago 1 day ago US diplomat says UK would have lost WW2 with Starmer as leader Mike Huckabee's comments come after the UK prime minister condemned Israel's Gaza City military takeover plan. 1 day ago