Investigating the Russia investigations. What's left to learn
Investigating the Russia investigations. What's left to learn? : Consider This from NPR The question of whether Russian interference in the 2016 election was a decisive reason Donald Trump won the presidency is one that has dogged Trump for the better part of a decade. It's also been the subject of numerous investigations. But even though that question has been asked and answered, the current Trump administration is launching another investigation in an effort to reach a different conclusion. Last month, Trump's Director of National Intelligence, Tulsi Gabbard, declassified documents and she leveled an unprecedented accusation: The Obama administration knowingly pushed the idea of Russian interference as false narrative to sabotage Trump's campaign. And this week, Attorney General Pam Bondi has authorized an investigation into the investigation of his 2016 campaign's relationship Russia. What is there left to learn? For sponsor-free episodes of Consider This, sign up for Consider This+ via Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org. Email us at considerthis@npr.org. Analysis Consider This from NPR NPR Analysis Consider This from NPR LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Investigating the Russia investigations. What's left to learn? August 8, 20255:01 PM ET Investigating the Russia investigations. What's left to learn? Listen · 9:35 9:35 Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1257040916/1269740320" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Enlarge this image U.S. President Donald Trump, left, shakes hands with Vladimir Putin, Russia's President, during a news conference in Helsinki, Finland, in July 2018. Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty Images U.S. President Donald Trump, left, shakes hands with Vladimir Putin, Russia's President, during a news conference in Helsinki, Finland, in July 2018. Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty Images The question of whether Russian interference in the 2016 election was a decisive reason Donald Trump won the presidency is one that has dogged Trump for the better part of a decade. It's also been the subject of numerous investigations. But even though that question has been asked and answered, the current Trump administration is launching another investigation in an effort to reach a different conclusion. Last month, Trump's Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard, declassified documents and leveled an unprecedented accusation: The Obama administration knowingly pushed the idea of Russian interference as false narrative to sabotage Trump's campaign. And this week, Attorney General Pam Bondi has authorized an investigation into the investigation of his 2016 campaign's relationship Russia. What is there left to learn? For sponsor-free episodes of Consider This, sign up for Consider This+ via Apple Podcasts or at plus.npr.org. Email us at considerthis@npr.org. Sponsor Message This episode was produced by Michael Levitt, with audio engineering by Ted Mebane. It was edited by Courtney Dorning. Our executive producer is Sami Yenigun. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor