Trump says he will meet Putin 'very shortly' and will announce the date and place soon
Trump says he will host Putin in Alaska on Aug. 15 for Ukraine summit President Trump has been pushing to broker an end to the war in Ukraine since he took office. But it hasn't been quick or easy. Special Series Ukraine invasion — explained The roots of Russia's invasion of Ukraine go back decades and run deep. The current conflict is more than one country fighting to take over another; it is — in the words of one U.S. official — a shift in "the world order." Here are some helpful stories to make sense of it all. Trump says he will host Putin in Alaska next Friday to talk about Ukraine Updated August 8, 20256:22 PM ET Originally published August 8, 20254:51 PM ET By Franco Ordoñez , Danielle Kurtzleben President Trump takes questions from reporters during an event in the Oval Office of the White House on March 31, 2025. Andrew Harnik/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Andrew Harnik/Getty Images President Trump said on Friday that he plans to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin in Alaska on Aug. 15 to talk about a plan to end Russia's war in Ukraine, now in its fourth year. Ukraine invasion — explained With summit looming, Ukraine's Zelenskyy says he won't give land to Russia "The highly anticipated meeting between myself, as president of the United States of America, and President Vladimir Putin, of Russia, will take place next Friday, August 15, 2025, in the Great State of Alaska. Further details to follow. Thank you for your attention to this matter!" Trump said on social media. Putin last met with a U.S. president in 2021, when he sat down with President Joe Biden in Geneva. Trump last met Putin in 2019 on the sidelines of the G20 in Osaka, Japan. Sponsor Message Earlier, Trump had told reporters that a deal to end the war in Ukraine would involve some exchange of territory. "It's very complicated. But we're going to get some [territory] back, and we're going to get some switched. There'll be some swapping of territories to the betterment of both, but we'll be talking about that either later, or tomorrow," Trump said. Ukraine invasion — explained Trump promised peace in Ukraine within a day. Here's what actually happened The long-awaited meeting comes after the complicated relationship between Trump and Putin has seen ups and downs over the past several months. Trump came into office promising to quickly end the war, boasting that his relationship with Putin would help reach a peace deal. For months, he resisted putting much pressure on Putin, saying he did not want to complicate the path to a peace agreement. But more recently, Trump's posture has shifted as Russia escalated its strikes against Ukraine. Trump has threatened tougher sanctions against Moscow, saying this week that he would apply steep tariffs on India — a key buyer of Russian oil. Ukraine invasion — explained Trump is open to meeting with Putin for peace talks without Zelenskyy Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff met with Putin on Aug. 6 in Moscow, and afterward, Trump said progress had been made. "There is a good chance we could be coming to an end of this road. That road was long, and continues to be long, but there's a good chance that there will be a meeting very soon," Trump said. Officials in Kyiv and across Europe have accused Moscow of stalling as its troops continue to advance in Eastern Ukraine. Ukraine has also launched surprise drone strikes deep into Russia. Politics Where could Trump and Putin meet about the war in Ukraine? The options are limited When Russian and Ukrainian officials met in Turkey in May for their first direct peace talks in years, Putin failed to show up. Trump told reporters in May that he thought it would be necessary for him to meet with Putin. "I don't believe anything's going to happen, whether you like it or not, until he and I get together," Trump said. "But we're going to have to get it solved because too many people are dying." Donald Trump Vladimir Putin volodymyr zelenskyy Ukraine-Russia Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor