Immigration enforcement brings new level of uncertainty to Montana cherry season
Immigration enforcement brings new level of uncertainty to Montana cherry season Cherry harvesting is an already volatile industry dependent upon weather and market conditions. This summer a new level of uncertainty was added when Montana growers weren't sure if migrant workers would cross state lines after heightened immigration enforcement. National Immigration enforcement brings new level of uncertainty to Montana cherry season August 8, 20254:48 PM ET Heard on All Things Considered From By Victoria Traxler Immigration enforcement brings new level of uncertainty to Montana cherry season Listen · 3:55 3:55 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5485973/nx-s1-9405581" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Cherry harvesting is an already volatile industry dependent upon weather and market conditions. This summer a new level of uncertainty was added when Montana growers weren't sure if migrant workers would cross state lines after heightened immigration enforcement. Sponsor Message AILSA CHANG, HOST: Cherry harvesting is an important summer tradition in Montana. The industry relies heavily on migrant labor, and President Trump's immigration policies have brought a new level of uncertainty to the cherry harvest. Montana Public Radio's Victoria Traxler explains. (SOUNDBITE OF WAVES CRASHING) VICTORIA TRAXLER, BYLINE: In early July, a transformation takes place on the shorelines of Flathead Lake in western Montana. As the Mission Mountains loom in the background, endless groves of trees begin to display little red fruit. For over 15 years, Maria Gomez has worked these orchards seasonally. She and her husband travel from Washington to Montana. They get paid about 25 cents per pound. Gomez says she enjoys working here. MARIA GOMEZ: (Through interpreter) For the benefits because it's like going on vacation - because over there, there aren't places where we can spend time outdoors like here. Here, we can go to the lake and do things like that. TRAXLER: She likes the beautiful western Montana landscape. But... GOMEZ: (Through interpreter) Things are not as they used to be. Perhaps it has to do with what is going on right now. Things are not the same. TRAXLER: As the Trump administration's immigration enforcement ramped up this year, some orchards in nearby Washington and Oregon came up short-handed this season, hurting their profits. Montana's attorney general agreed in February to offer state highway patrol to aid in immigration enforcement. Migrant workers who spoke to MTPR said they know many people who feared crossing state lines out of concern of being detained and separated from their families. That has growers concerned for the future. BRUCE JOHNSON: This trees has more fruit on it now than it ever had. TRAXLER: In early July, grower Bruce Johnson's trees were bursting with fruit. Johnson is a board member for the Flathead Cherry Growers Association. Many growers like Johnson have a direct relationship with workers who return year after year. JOHNSON: They generally call us, say, we want to know what the fruits like, when can I come? - 'cause they really want to come. And it was just kind of getting the word around - none of us were hearing from them, and so that's when we started worrying. TRAXLER: By early July, Johnson says many growers had only heard from about half their workers. Over the next few weeks, things changed. Various factors like weather and market volatility reduced the amount of cherries that needed harvesting. As a result, less pickers were needed. Meanwhile, enough workers reached out last minute. A looming workforce crisis was averted. Even those who did come still felt worried, like Alma, who asked to be identified by only her first name out of concern of being targeted by ICE. ALMA: (Through interpreter) You're going out of your comfort zone. You know what I mean? Like, over there, you know the areas. Here, it's different. You're going to cross different states, so anything could happen. One police stop, and you don't know what could happen. TRAXLER: Brian Campbell is a local field representative for Monson Fruit. The Washington-based company packs and distributes most Flathead cherries that go to market. BRIAN CAMPBELL: If you scare them to the point where they're not going to come and work, then cherries are going to rot on the tree. TRAXLER: Yet Montana's Department of Labor and Industry Commissioner, Sarah Swanson, says... SARAH SWANSON: There's lots of ways we could help them build kind of a response effort to projected workforce shortages in a short turnaround. TRAXLER: As Campbell reflects on this season, he focuses on how migrant workers skilled in picking cherries are vital to the success of this niche industry. Trying to replace them on short notice, he says, would be an exercise in futility. For NPR News, I'm Victoria Traxler in Polson, Montana. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) Copyright © 2025 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. Accuracy and availability of NPR transcripts may vary. Transcript text may be revised to correct errors or match updates to audio. Audio on npr.org may be edited after its original broadcast or publication. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor