The News Roundup For August 8, 2025
The News Roundup For August 8, 2025 : 1A After months of delays, President Donald Trump's sweeping tariffs went into effect on Thursday. A planned strategy meeting among top Trump administration officials whether to release the transcript from the Department of Justice interview with Ghislaine Maxwell was cancelled. Meanwhile, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government considers a total takeover of the Gaza strip. The UN warns the move could risk "catastrophic consequences." Trump administration special envoy Steve Witkoff met with Russian President Vladimir Putin ahead of Donald Trump's Friday deadline for peace in Ukraine. And Rwanda has agreed to accept 250 migrants from the United States becoming the latest nation to strike a deal to take in Trump administration deportees. Want to support 1A? Give to your local public radio station and subscribe to this podcast. Have questions? Connect with us. Listen to 1A sponsor-free by signing up for 1A+ at plus.npr.org/the1a. 1A NPR 1A LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link The News Roundup For August 8, 2025 August 8, 20254:00 PM ET The News Roundup For August 8, 2025 Listen · 1:24:26 1:24:26 Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1257040925/1269740202" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Enlarge this image A sign showing a photo of President Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein is displayed ahead of a news conference with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. OLIVER CONTRERAS/AFP via Getty Images hide caption toggle caption OLIVER CONTRERAS/AFP via Getty Images A sign showing a photo of President Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein is displayed ahead of a news conference with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. OLIVER CONTRERAS/AFP via Getty Images After months of delays, President Donald Trump's sweeping tariffs went into effect on Thursday. A majority of U.S. imports will now come with a baseline 10 percent duty. The overall average tariff rate is 17 percent — the highest since during the Great Depression in 1935. President Trump claims the Bureau of Labor Statistics had issued "phony" jobs numbers during the Biden administration to help Democrats hold the White House, only to revise them downward after Trump won the 2024 election. He fired Erika McEntarfer, the commissioner of the BLS last week. A planned strategy meeting among top Trump administration officials whether to release the transcript from the Department of Justice interview with Ghislaine Maxwell was cancelled. Sponsor Message Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government considers a total takeover of the Gaza strip. The UN warns the move could risk "catastrophic consequences." Trump administration special envoy Steve Witkoff met with Russian President Vladimir Putin ahead of Donald Trump's Friday deadline for peace in Ukraine. Rwanda has agreed to accept 250 migrants from the United States becoming the latest nation to strike a deal to take in Trump administration deportees. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor