Why is Chile’s Birth Rate Plummeting
Why is Chile’s Birth Rate Plummeting? : State of the World from NPR Much of the attention on the world's plunging birth rate is on east Asian countries like Japan and South Korea. But Latin American countries, like Chile, are also seeing a decline in fertility. We go to Chile’s capital to understand the personal decisions behind the countries plummeting birth rate trend. State of the World from NPR NPR State of the World from NPR LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Why is Chile’s Birth Rate Plummeting? August 8, 20252:08 PM ET By Greg Dixon , Brian Mann State of the World from NPR-08.08.2025 Listen · 7:56 7:56 Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5496487/nx-s1-mx-5664256" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Macarena Lagos, 18, F. Contreras, 21, and Mariana Sanhueza Weish, 22, are design students at the Catholic University in Santiago. All three voiced strong reservations about having children. They worry that motherhood would limit their freedom and choices. Tamara Merino for NPR hide caption toggle caption Tamara Merino for NPR Much of the attention on the world's plunging birth rate is on east Asian countries like Japan and South Korea. But Latin American countries, like Chile, are also seeing a decline in fertility. We go to Chile’s capital to understand the personal decisions behind the countries plummeting birth rate trend. Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor