Germany halts its military exports that Israel could use in Gaza
Germany bans its military exports for Israel to use in Gaza Germany will stop exporting military equipment to Israel that could be used in the Gaza Strip, in a swift response to Israel's decision to expand its operations in the Palestinian enclave's main city. Special Series Middle East conflict Conflict in the Middle East has been escalating. These stories provide context for current developments and the history that led up to them. Germany halts its military exports that Israel could use in Gaza Updated August 8, 202512:52 PM ET Originally published August 8, 202511:06 AM ET Rob Schmitz German Chancellor Friedrich Merz attends a news conference after a meeting with Jordan's King Abdullah II at the chancellery in Berlin, July 29. Ebrahim Noroozi/AP hide caption toggle caption Ebrahim Noroozi/AP BERLIN — Germany will stop exporting military equipment to Israel that could be used in the Gaza Strip, the German government's leader said, in a swift response to Israel's decision to expand its operations in the Palestinian territory's main city. Middle East conflict Israel announces plan to take over Gaza City in another escalation of the war "The even tougher military action by the Israeli army in the Gaza Strip, which was decided last night by the Israeli Security Cabinet, makes it increasingly difficult for the [German] Federal Government to see how these goals can be achieved," German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said in a statement Friday. "Under these circumstances, the German government will not authorize any exports of military equipment that could be used in the Gaza Strip until further notice." Germany supplied a third of Israel's arms imports between 2020 and 2024, second only to weapons sales from the United States, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Sponsor Message Merz's announcement follows mounting public pressure in Germany to reevaluate weapons sales, as the United Nations and Palestinian health authorities report growing civilian causalities and limited access to aid in Gaza. Middle East conflict Photos of a starving baby in Gaza shocked the world. Here's how he's doing now Merz called on Israel's government to improve the humanitarian situation on the ground in Gaza. "The German government remains deeply concerned about the ongoing suffering of the civilian population in the Gaza Strip," the statement said. "With the planned offensive, the Israeli government bears even greater responsibility than before for providing aid." Middle East conflict France, U.K., others plan to recognize a Palestinian state. What does that change? Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu slammed the chancellor's decision. "Instead of supporting Israel's just war against Hamas, which carried out the most horrific attack against the Jewish people since the Holocaust, Germany is rewarding Hamas terrorism by embargoing arms to Israel," the prime minister's office said in a statement. Germany is one of Israel's closest allies and staunchest defenders inside Europe, which has usually not taken as strong a line against Israeli policies as some of the other European Union countries. Merz often refers to Germany's diplomatic support for Israel as its Staatsräson, or "reason of state," a historic responsibility to the existence of Israel because of Germany's role in the Holocaust. This vow makes Friday's quick response to the Israeli decision an even bigger step for Germany. Sponsor Message The suspension leaves open the possibility of continued exports for systems unrelated to Israel's Gaza offensive, such as missile defense or naval equipment. But Merz also warned Israel against steps toward "annexation of the West Bank," in a sign that his government is monitoring developments beyond the Gaza Strip. Germany gaza city Gaza Strip Israel-Hamas war Israel Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor