The skin we're in
The skin we're in : TED Radio Hour Our skin protects us, connects us, and constantly gathers data about the world around us. This hour, we explore how skin shapes our sense of self and how tech might change the way we touch and feel. Guests include mechanical engineer Katherine Kuchenbecker, materials scientist Anna Maria Coclite, TV broadcaster Lee Thomas and author Kathryn Schulz. TED Radio Hour+ subscribers now get access to bonus episodes, with more ideas from TED speakers and a behind the scenes look with our producers. A Plus subscription also lets you listen to regular episodes (like this one!) without sponsors. Sign-up at: plus.npr.org/ted For handpicked podcast recommendations every week, subscribe to NPR’s Pod Club newsletter at npr.org/podclub. TED Radio Hour NPR TED Radio Hour LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link The skin we're in August 8, 20259:56 AM ET The skin we're in Listen · 49:38 49:38 Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5489164/nx-s1-9394174" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Our skin protects us, connects us, and constantly gathers data about the world around us. This hour, we explore how skin shapes our sense of self and how tech might change the way we touch and feel. Guests include mechanical engineer Katherine Kuchenbecker, materials scientist Anna Maria Coclite, TV broadcaster Lee Thomas and author Kathryn Schulz. This episode of TED Radio Hour was produced by James Delahoussaye, Rachel Faulkner White, Katie Monteleone and Matthew Cloutier. It was edited by Sanaz Meshkinpour and Manoush Zomorodi. Our production staff at NPR also includes Fiona Geiran and Harsha Nahata. Our audio engineers for this episode were Jimmy Keeley and Robert Rodriguez. For handpicked podcast recommendations every week, subscribe to NPR's Pod Club newsletter at npr.org/podclub. Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor