US diplomat says UK would have lost WW2 with Starmer as leader
US diplomat says UK would have lost WW2 with Starmer as leader 1 day ago Share Save Amy Walker BBC News Share Save Reuters The US ambassador to Israel has criticised Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer's reaction to Israel's Gaza City takeover plan The UK would have lost World War Two if Sir Keir Starmer had been its leader at the time, the US ambassador to Israel has suggested in an attack on the prime minister's response to Israel's Gaza City takeover plan. In a post on social media, Mike Huckabee wrote: "So Israel is expected to surrender to Hamas & feed them even though Israeli hostages are being starved?" "Did UK surrender to Nazis and drop food to them? ... If you had been PM then UK would be speaking German!" he said. His comments come after Starmer condemned Israel's plans to take over Gaza City as "wrong" and urged its government to immediately reconsider its decision "to further escalate its offensive". A spokesperson for No 10 said they had nothing to add to Starmer's comments. In his post on X on Friday, in which he reposted a statement by Starmer, Huckabee said: "Ever heard of Dresden, PM Starmer? "That wasn't food you dropped. If you had been PM then UK would be speaking German!" During World War Two, British and American forces dropped 4,000 tons of bombs on the eastern German city over two days, killing tens of thousands of civilians. Starmer's earlier statement said: "The Israeli Government's decision to further escalate its offensive in Gaza is wrong, and we urge it to reconsider immediately. "This action will do nothing to bring an end to this conflict or to help secure the release of the hostages. It will only bring more bloodshed," he added. In the early hours of Friday, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's security cabinet approved plans to take over Gaza's capital, in a controversial escalation of its war in the territory. Netanyahu has previously said he wants to take control of the whole of the Gaza Strip but the approved plan focuses specifically on Gaza City in the territory's north, where hundreds of thousands of Palestinians live. Israel's move has been staunchly opposed, including from within Israel, such as by members of the country's army leadership and the families of hostages being held in Gaza. The plan has also been heavily criticised internationally. The United Nations' human rights chief Volker Türk warned further escalation of the war would cause "more massive forced displacement, more killing, more unbearable suffering". Following the announcement of Israel's plan, Germany's Chancellor Friedrich Merz said the country would suspend the export of arms to Israel, which could be used in Gaza, saying it was "increasingly difficult to understand" how Israel's military plan would achieve legitimate aims. However, the US has not condemned the move. On Tuesday, President Donald Trump said it was "pretty much up to Israel" whether to fully occupy Gaza. During a meeting with the UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy in Kent on Friday, US Vice-President JD Vance refused to disclose whether the US government knew about Israel's plans to take over Gaza City. He added that Trump would address the issue, saying their aim is to stop Hamas "attacking innocent people" and to solve humanitarian problems in Gaza. Israeli defence minister says criticism of Gaza City takeover plan 'will not weaken our resolve' US shrugs off Gaza escalation - drifting further away from allies Israel's Gaza escalation 'means abandoning hostages', families say Netanyahu and the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) have outlined five "principles" for ending the war. These include the disarmament of Hamas, the return of all Israeli hostages, the demilitarisation of the Gaza Strip, Israeli security control over the Gaza Strip and the establishment of an alternative civilian administration that is neither Hamas nor the Palestinian Authority. More than 61,000 people have been killed in Gaza since the IDF began its military operation, in response to the Hamas-led attack on southern Israel on 7 October 2023, in which about 1,200 people were killed and 251 others were taken hostage. Fifty hostages are still being held by Hamas - 20 of whom are believed to still be alive. Israel-Gaza war Israel Keir Starmer Gaza United States Related Eleven more die from malnutrition in Gaza, Hamas-run health ministry says 'I remain trapped,' says Gaza student in UK visa plea Nagasaki mayor warns of nuclear war 80 years after atomic bomb attack More from the BBC 2 hrs ago Thousands protest in Jerusalem over Israel's Gaza City occupation plan BBC correspondent Emir Nader speaks to demonstrators against the Israel's plans for Gaza, including a former soldier who says he no longer supports the government. 2 hrs ago 3 hrs ago How Kentucky bourbon went from boom to bust Tariffs, oversupply and teetotaling Gen-Zs have all contributed to the downfall of one of America's most iconic liquors. 3 hrs ago 7 hrs ago Trump nominates ex-Fox News host Tammy Bruce as deputy UN ambassador Bruce, who is currently spokeswoman for the state department, has done "brilliantly" according to Trump. 7 hrs ago 8 hrs ago Officials say gunman who attacked CDC may have had anti-Covid vaccine beliefs Officials say the 30-year-old suspect may have been ill, or thought he was ill from a Covid vaccine. 8 hrs ago 8 hrs ago Fire prompts thousands of evacuations in California The Canyon Fire, which began on Thursday afternoon, has blazed through nearly 5,000 acres in less than 24 hours. 8 hrs ago