Gaza Occupation Decision, Redistricting Update, Trump Orders New Census
Gaza Occupation Decision, Redistricting Update, Trump Orders New Census : Up First from NPR Israel's cabinet has voted to expand the war in Gaza by taking control of Gaza City, Republican efforts to redraw Congressional districts ahead of next year's midterms continue to escalate, and President Trump is calling for a "new" census that excludes people who are in the U.S. without legal status. Want more comprehensive analysis of the most important news of the day, plus a little fun? Subscribe to the Up First newsletter. Today's episode of Up First was edited by Hannah Bloch, Ben Swasey, Janaya Williams and Ally Schweitzer. It was produced by Ziad Buchh, Nia Dumas and Christopher Thomas. We get engineering support from David Greenburg. Our technical director is Carleigh Strange. And our Executive Producer is Jay Shaylor. Up First from NPR NPR Up First from NPR LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music Amazon Alexa RSS link Gaza Occupation Decision, Redistricting Update, Trump Orders New Census August 8, 20256:35 AM ET Gaza Occupation Decision, Redistricting Update, Trump Orders New Census Listen · 13:09 13:09 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1257040914/1269739252" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript Israel's cabinet has voted to expand the war in Gaza by taking control of Gaza City, Republican efforts to redraw Congressional districts ahead of next year's midterms continue to escalate, and President Trump is calling for a "new" census that excludes people who are in the U.S. without legal status. Want more comprehensive analysis of the most important news of the day, plus a little fun? Subscribe to the Up First newsletter. Today's episode of Up First was edited by Hannah Bloch, Ben Swasey, Janaya Williams and Ally Schweitzer. It was produced by Ziad Buchh, Nia Dumas and Christopher Thomas. We get engineering support from David Greenburg. Our technical director is Carleigh Strange. And our Executive Producer is Jay Shaylor. Sponsor Message Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor