Over what does the Trump admin want to unleash 'dominance' Find out in the quiz
Over what does the Trump admin want to unleash 'dominance'? Find out in the quiz Plus: physical fitness, Confederate statues, robot overlords and weird zoo requests. Special Series The NPR news quiz Have you been paying attention? Over what does the Trump admin want to unleash 'dominance'? Find out in the quiz August 8, 20255:01 AM ET Holly J. Morris From left: Jeanine Pirro, NFL player Matt Prater sniffing … something, and a famous ambulatory robot. Steven Ferdman/Getty Images; Mike Mulholland/Getty Images; Koichi Kamoshida/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Steven Ferdman/Getty Images; Mike Mulholland/Getty Images; Koichi Kamoshida/Getty Images This week we learned about several new-to-us topics, such as what substance NFL players sniff for alertness and the history of the Presidential Fitness Test. If you're acquainted with both of those, you'll get at least two questions right this week. Want to give quiz writing a try? We're taking reader submissions. The form and instructions are below the quiz. Please submit by 8 p.m. ET on Tuesday, Aug. 12. Loading... A Flourish data visualization To submit a bonus question, please enter your proposed question and the answer in the form below. Your question should relate to news from Aug. 4 through 12. If your submission is selected for inclusion in the NPR Weekly Quiz, you will be acknowledged in a list of contributors on NPR's website or otherwise receive appropriate credit, but failure to do so shall not be deemed a breach of your rights. Your submission will be governed by our general Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. As the Privacy Policy says, we want you to be aware that there may be circumstances in which the exemptions provided under law for journalistic activities or freedom of expression may override privacy rights you might otherwise have. Sponsor Message Texas confederate statues Jeanine Pirro robots drones Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor