Rapidly growing fire prompts thousands of evacuations in California
Fire prompts thousands of evacuations in California 9 hours ago Share Save Ali Abbas Ahmadi BBC News Share Save Watch: Aircrews battle rapidly spreading Canyon Fire in California A fierce wildfire north-west of Los Angeles prompted evacuation orders for thousands of residents on Friday, as extreme heat and dry conditions fuelled its rapid spread. The blaze, named the Canyon Fire, ignited on Thursday afternoon along the border of Ventura and Los Angeles counties. By Friday evening, it had expanded from 30 acres to nearly 5,400. The fire has been partially contained, with 28% of its perimeter under control by Saturday morning, officials said, and evacuation orders were reduced to warnings. On Friday evening, a firefighter suffered major injuries when his truck rolled over a ridge and down a steep hillside. Getty Images Kern County firefighter James Agee was driving a pick up truck when he was involved in a "rollover" about 18:20 local time, according to a statement issued by the county. He was airlifted to hospital with "serious injuries". "James is a strong man with a big heart, and we know he's facing this challenge with the same strength and character he's shown throughout his career," said Kern County Fire Chief Aaron Duncan. "We are grateful for the swift actions of our crews and partner agencies, and for the kindness being shown to James and his family." While extreme heat and historically dry conditions had been complicating firefighting efforts, on Friday night, Ventura county said in a statement that "favourable weather conditions" had allowed firefighters to make "good progress in supressing the blaze". By Saturday morning, officials said there were 1,148 people deployed to fight the fire. "Crews worked through the night to improve defensive positions and further secure the fire's perimeter," said the statement from the LA County Fire Department. "Overnight fire activity was minimal as firefighters worked to continue strengthening existing control lines." The fire remains active and is spreading east toward Castaic in Los Angeles County, authorities said. With the temperatures forecast to soar to 100°F (37.7°C) in the coming days, residents are being urged to stay on alert. In the city of Santa Clarita, one of the closest to the blaze, residents have been told to stay away from fire-affected areas. "If you're in Santa Clarita, Hasley Canyon, or Val Verde, take evacuation orders seriously - when first responders say GO, leave immediately. Keep aware - please don't risk lives," LA County Supervisor Kathryn Barger wrote on X on Friday. The Canyon Fire is one of several active wildfires across the state, according to California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire). The Gifford Fire, the largest active blaze in California, has engulfed almost 100,000 acres and is burning across the San Luis Obispo and Santa Barbara counties. Wildfires have become more frequent in California, with experts citing climate change as a key factor. Hotter, drier conditions have made fire seasons longer and more destructive. In January this year, the Eaton Fire and Palisades Fire each tore through two neighbourhoods in Los Angeles, killing at least 31 people and destroying thousands of buildings. More than 400 indirect deaths linked to LA wildfires, study suggests How one street in LA went up in flames From Baywatch to toxic waste - LA's iconic beaches unrecognisable after fires Los Angeles California wildfires United States Severe weather California Related More than 400 indirect deaths linked to LA wildfires, study suggests Darth Vader lightsaber worth millions on display Ex-NBA star Gilbert Arenas arrested over illegal high-stakes poker ring More from the BBC 4 hrs ago How Kentucky bourbon went from boom to bust Tariffs, oversupply and teetotaling Gen-Zs have all contributed to the downfall of one of America's most iconic liquors. 4 hrs ago 8 hrs ago Trump nominates ex-Fox News host Tammy Bruce as deputy UN ambassador Bruce, who is currently spokeswoman for the state department, has done "brilliantly" according to Trump. 8 hrs ago 8 hrs ago Officials say gunman who attacked CDC may have had anti-Covid vaccine beliefs Officials say the 30-year-old suspect may have been ill, or thought he was ill from a Covid vaccine. 8 hrs ago 12 hrs ago Teenager arrested after three shot in New York City's Times Square An 18-year-old woman grazed by a bullet in the neck was among the injured as gunfire rang out. 12 hrs ago 12 hrs ago Putin gives Trump envoy award for CIA official's son killed fighting in Ukraine Michael Gloss, 21, who was killed in Ukraine last year, was the son of Juliane Gallina, a CIA deputy director, 12 hrs ago