Why do some people's memories stay sharp as they age
Some people's brains resist Alzheimer's disease and dementia : Short Wave The human brain tends to slow down as we age — even healthy brains shrink. That can make learning and memory harder as people age. But some people’s brains shrink more slowly than their peers. This lucky group is called “SuperAgers.” They’re people aged 80 or older. But they have the memory abilities of someone 50-to-60 years old. This week in the journal Alzheimer's & Dementia, researchers from Northwestern University’s SuperAging Program summarized some of the secrets they’ve learned in the last 2.5 decades. Want to hear about more stories about human health and aging? Email us and let us know at shortwave@npr.org. Listen to every episode of Short Wave sponsor-free and support our work at NPR by signing up for Short Wave+ at plus.npr.org/shortwave. Short Wave NPR Short Wave LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music Amazon Alexa RSS link Why do some people's memories stay sharp as they age? August 8, 20253:00 AM ET By Regina G. Barber , Rachel Carlson , Michelle Aslam , Rebecca Ramirez , Christopher Intagliata , Ailsa Chang Why Do Some 80 Year-Olds Have Extraordinary Memories? Listen · 8:45 8:45 Transcript Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5494697/nx-s1-9402083" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Transcript A donated SuperAger brain at Northwestern University in Chicago, IL. Shane Collins, Northwestern University hide caption toggle caption Shane Collins, Northwestern University The human brain tends to slow down as we age — even healthy brains shrink. That can make learning and memory harder as people age. But some people's brains shrink more slowly than their peers. This lucky group is called "SuperAgers." They're people aged 80 or older. But they have the memory abilities of someone 50-to-60 years old. This week in the journal Alzheimer's & Dementia, researchers from Northwestern University's SuperAging Program summarized some of the secrets they've learned in the last 2.5 decades. Want to hear about more stories about human health and aging? Email us and let us know at shortwave@npr.org. Listen to every episode of Short Wave sponsor-free and support our work at NPR by signing up for Short Wave+ at plus.npr.org/shortwave. Listen to Short Wave on Spotify and Apple Podcasts. This episode was produced by Rachel Carlson and Michelle Aslam. It was edited by Rebecca Ramirez and Christopher Intagliata. Tyler Jones checked the facts. Ted Mebane and Gilly Moon were the audio engineers. Sponsor Message aging well brain plasticity Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor