Why Accurate Labor Statistics Matter For The US Economy
Why Accurate Labor Statistics Matter For The US Economy : 1A The president of the United States fired the head of the government's main economic statistics agency after a recent report showed a less than positive picture of U.S. employment. The civil servant President Donald Trump fired was former Commissioner of Labor Statistics Erika McEntarfer, a labor economist nominated to the role in 2023 by President Joe Biden. The Senate overwhelmingly confirmed her in 2024. Commissioners often serve under multiple presidents. The president defended his reasoning for the firing on social media – though he didn't provide evidence to back up his claims. We discuss the consequences when the president fires the person at the head of the government's main agency for economic statistics. Want to support 1A? Give to your local public radio station and subscribe to this podcast. Have questions? Connect with us. Listen to 1A sponsor-free by signing up for 1A+ at plus.npr.org/the1a. 1A NPR 1A LISTEN & FOLLOW NPR App Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music iHeart Radio YouTube Music RSS link Why Accurate Labor Statistics Matter For The US Economy August 7, 20256:12 PM ET Why Accurate Labor Statistics Matter For The US Economy Listen · 40:53 40:53 Toggle more options Download Embed Embed <iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1256971822/1269738885" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> Enlarge this image The Frances Perkins Department of Labor Building is seen in Washington, DC. Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images hide caption toggle caption Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images The Frances Perkins Department of Labor Building is seen in Washington, DC. Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images The president of the United States fired the head of the government's main economic statistics agency after a recent report showed a less than positive picture of U.S. employment. The civil servant President Donald Trump fired was former Commissioner of Labor Statistics Erika McEntarfer, a labor economist nominated to the role in 2023 by President Joe Biden. The Senate overwhelmingly confirmed her in 2024. Commissioners often serve under multiple presidents. The president defended his reasoning for the firing on social media – though he didn't provide evidence to back up his claims. So, what are the consequences when the president fires the person at the head of the government's main agency for economic statistics? And what does it mean for the U.S. economy if that firing raises questions about political influence on that data in the future? Sponsor Message Find more of our programs online. Listen to 1A sponsor-free by signing up for 1A+ at plus.npr.org/the1a. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor