Trump taps White House economist Stephen Miran to fill Fed vacancy on temporary basis
Trump taps economic adviser to fill Fed vacancy temporarily President Trump plans to nominate Stephen Miran to fill a vacant seat on the Federal Reserve's board of governors, but only for the next six months. Economy Trump taps White House economist Stephen Miran to fill Fed vacancy on temporary basis August 7, 20254:30 PM ET Scott Horsley President Trump plans to nominate White House economist Stephen Miran to fill a temporary vacancy on the Federal Reserve's board of governors. Brendan Smialowski/AFP hide caption toggle caption Brendan Smialowski/AFP President Trump plans to nominate White House economist Stephen Miran to fill a six-month vacancy on the Federal Reserve's board of governors. In a post on social media, Trump said he wants Miran to fill the board seat being vacated by Adriana Kugler, whose term expires at the end of January. Kugler announced last week she's leaving the Fed six months early to return to a teaching post at Georgetown University. Trump said he will continue to search for a nominee to fill a new, 14-year term on the Fed board that begins early next year. The nominations are subject to Senate confirmation. Sponsor Message Miran currently serves as chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. He also held a post in the Treasury Department during Trump's first term as president. Kugler's departure gives Trump his first opening to shape the seven-member governing board at the Fed since returning to the White House. Trump has criticized Fed chairman Jerome Powell and his colleagues for not moving more aggressively to cut interest rates. Powell's term as Fed chairman ends next May, although his term on the governing board runs through 2028. Powell has not said whether he plans to remain on the board once he steps down as chair. Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Transcripts Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor