WSL2 rivals 'shocked' by Blackburn withdrawal
WSL2 rivals 'shocked' by Blackburn withdrawal Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Rio Hardy started her career at Blackburn, making nine senior appearances Emma Smith BBC Sport journalist at St George's Park Published 8 August 2025 Former Blackburn Rovers players say they felt "shocked" and "gutted" by the club withdrawing from Women's Super League 2 before the 2025-26 season. Blackburn dropped out of English football's second-tier WSL2 in May as owners Venky's were unwilling to meet league requirements on facilities, staffing and player welfare. Players say they were informed of the news just an hour before it was made public. Bristol City striker Rio Hardy started her career at Blackburn in 2013 and said she was astonished by how far the club had fallen. "It's a real disappointment. I owe a lot to Blackburn and it was a great club," she told BBC Sport at a WSL2 media day. "I have some friends from there now at different clubs, and we're shocked – you don't expect this would happen any more. "They played at Ewood Park. It looked good from the outside looking in, but it's a different story when it comes out. "It shows teams what will happen if they don't back the women's team, and hopefully a lesson is learned." It is the second successive season in which a second division club has withdrawn from the league because of financial issues, after Reading dropped out in 2024. 'Hopefully this never happens to a team again' Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Portsmouth defender Hannah Coan joined the club from Blackburn last year Portsmouth defender Hannah Coan also started her career at Blackburn, winning their young player of the year award for the 2023-24 season before moving to the south coast. She knew many of the playing squad, and said those who had injuries were now fearful for their future in the game. "The league is trying to grow, and seeing things like that, I'm gutted for the club," she told BBC Sport. Coan also said it stood as a stark warning of how fragile the women's game can still be, despite England winning a second successive European title this summer. "You look at the summer the Lionesses had. That does build women's football, but you have to look at these other clubs and bring them up to the level," Coan said. Players are hopeful that the growing professionalisation of women's football will help to prevent a repeat. This season, for the first time, all 12 sides at WSL2 level are fully professional. All clubs in the top two divisions must meet licence criteria to create a professional environment. This includes elite facilities, a requisite number of full-time staff and wellbeing support for players. Southampton goalkeeper Fran Stenson, who had a loan spell at Blackburn earlier in her career, said: "Hopefully this never happens to a team again. You see all the investment in the league so hopefully it doesn't happen. "I was surprised. My time at Blackburn was good – they set me up and gave me playing time, I'm very grateful. I don't wish what happened on anyone." 'We are grateful for a second opportunity' Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Sheffield United finished bottom of the Women's Championship in 2024-25 Blackburn's withdrawal provided a stay of execution for Sheffield United, who finished bottom of the Women's Championship in the 2024-25 season. The Blades were reinstated to WSL2, but goalkeeper Sian Rogers said club officials had assured them the club would stay full-time and the team would be supported even when it appeared they would be playing third division football. "It wasn't uncertain. The club reassured us we would be in a positive place and would look like a full-time club," Rogers told BBC Sport. "That reassured a lot of people. Nothing was going to change. "Having that backing is massive. Knowing you don't just have your team but the men's team behind you, which pushes the women's game even further. We want to leave the game in a better place than we found it. "Ending last season we were very disappointed. We shouldn't have been in that situation. Then hearing about Blackburn wasn't ideal either for the league itself, but we are grateful for a second opportunity you don't usually get. We are definitely going to make the most of it." Related topics Football Women's Football More on this story Get the latest WSL news on our dedicated page