Morecambe buyers claim owners cancelled mediation
Morecambe buyers claim owners cancelled mediation Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Morecambe should have kicked off their National League campaign against Boston United on Saturday but they were suspended by the league last week Published 8 August 2025 Prospective Morecambe buyers Panjab Warriors have claimed that owner Jason Whittingham cancelled a scheduled mediation session in relation to the protracted purchase of the club. In a statement issued on Friday, Panjab Warriors said they had agreed to a meeting with a "mutually known" independent mediator at the request of Whittingham and co-owner Colin Goldring. A meeting was set up in London on Thursday but the pair cancelled the meeting on Wednesday evening, according to Warriors' statement., external The mediator, who Panjab Warriors claimed had been appointed by Whittingham and Goldring, later informed the group that they would no longer be facilitating discussions. "This ongoing pattern of avoidance must end. We urge Jason and Colin to stop prolonging the suffering of everyone impacted by the current crisis at Morecambe FC," the statement added. "The time has come to complete the sale that has already been agreed so the club, its staff, supporters and community can finally move forward." BBC Radio Lancashire has contacted Whittingham for comment. Culture secretary calls on Morecambe owner to sell Published 1 August Bury give free entry to Morecambe fans in 'solidarity' Published 4 days ago Panjab Warriors have been attempting to buy the club for over a year and said they have put in significant funding in order to help finance the Shrimps during the course of last season. Culture secretary Lisa Nandy wrote an open letter to Whittingham last week urging him to sell the club amid a chaotic summer, during which a separate bid was made for the club, but a deal has yet to go through. Her letter came after the club were suspended by the National League for failing to comply with their rules, while Panjab Warriors also said in a joint statement that the club would shut this week without a takeover. Morecambe, who were relegated from the English Football League last season, were due to face Boston United on Saturday to kick off their 2025-26 National League campaign. Related topics Morecambe Football National League