Active shooter reported in near Emory University in Atlanta
Gunman dead in Atlanta shooting near CDC and Emory University; officer killed, police say By Paula Cohen, Kierra Frazier Kierra Frazier News Editor Kierra Frazier is a news editor for CBS News & Stations. Read Full Bio Kierra Frazier Updated on: August 9, 2025 / 10:17 AM EDT / CBS News https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/ link copied No civilians injured in shooting near Emory University, Atlanta mayor says 15:22 A man opened fire outside the headquarters of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta on Friday, leaving bullet holes in windows across the sprawling campus and killing a police officer before he was found dead in a nearby building, authorities said. The attack, which unfolded near neighboring Emory University, prompted a massive law enforcement response to one of the nation's most prominent public health institutions. No one else was reported to be injured. The gunman was identified Saturday as Patrick Joseph White, age 30, of Kennesaw, Georgia. His motive is still unknown this early in the investigation, Atlanta Mayor Andre Dickens said. Officer David Rose was killed in the gunfire, the DeKalb County Police Department said in a Facebook post. New Updates 9:47 AM / August 9, 2025 Shooting suspect identified as 30-year-old man The Georgia Bureau of Investigation on Saturday identified the gunman as Patrick Joseph White, age 30, of Kennesaw, GA. The GBI statement says White died in the incident. Officer David Rose with the DeKalb County Police Department was shot and killed during the shooting on Friday, the DeKalb County Police Department said. On Friday, the Atlanta Police Chief said the gunman was found dead. The GBI said Emory University Police Department requested the agency investigate the shooting that left White and Rose dead. GBI said, upon the request of the Atlanta Police Department, they are also investigating a shooting incident that occurred before Friday's shooting. GBI said they are the lead investigative agency in both these cases. The law enforcement agency also said that the investigation will take an extended period of time. By Cara Tabachnick https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-a65e4e1b link copied 11:08 PM / August 8, 2025 Slain DeKalb police officer identified DeKalb County officials identified the officer killed Friday as 33-year-old David Rose, a deputy. Rose was a father of two with a third child on the way, DeKalb County CEO Lorraine Cochran-Johnson said at a news conference earlier Friday. He was fatally shot after responding to the incident. But officials have provided no further details on the exact circumstances leading up to his death. DeKalb County officials identified the officer who died Friday as 33-year-old deputy David Rose. Dekalb County Police Department By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-58db7682 link copied 9:42 PM / August 8, 2025 CDC director says agency is "heartbroken" by shooting Dr. Susan Monarez, director of the CDC, said in a statement Friday evening that the agency was "heartbroken" by the "attack on our Roybal Campus." Monarez disclosed the gunman opened fire on at least four CDC buildings. The campus remains on lockdown as the investigation continues, Monarez said. "Our top priority is the safety and well-being of everyone at CDC," Monarez said. "We are actively coordinating with federal, state, and local partners to fully investigate the shooter and this tragic crime." Monarez was just confirmed to the post by the Senate in a vote last week. She had served as acting CDC director since January and was officially nominated to the position by President Trump in March. By Faris Tanyos https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-a6a0d599 link copied 8:52 PM / August 8, 2025 Officer injured in shooting has died, police say The officer who was shot and wounded while responding to the incident has died, Interim Chief Greg Padrick of the DeKalb County Police Department said. "This officer responded to the call as he did, as he was trained to do, and during that incident, he received gunfire, and he lost his life in this incident," Padrick said. "He was committed to serving the community." Officials are not currently releasing the officer's name. They said he was married and had two children, with a third on the way. "This evening, there is a wife without a husband. There are three children, one unborn, without a father," DeKalb County CEO Lorraine Cochran-Johnson said at a news conference. "There is a mother and a father, as well as siblings who also share in this traumatic loss. This evening, my heart goes out to the family." By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-1f1ae3d7 link copied 7:56 PM / August 8, 2025 Police say they found gunman dead on second floor of CVS Atlanta Police Chief Darin Schierbaum said at a news conference Friday evening that officers received reports of an active shooter at about 4:50 p.m., at a location immediately in front of the CDC. At the scene, officers found a critically injured DeKalb County police officer, who was taken to Grady Hospital. Officers could still hear gunfire occurring inside a nearby CVS drug store, Schierbaum said. Schierbaum said officers moved quickly to find the shooter on the second floor of the CVS. The suspect was struck by gunfire, but Shierbaum said it is not known whether the gunfire came from officers or if it was self-inflicted. The gunman died at the scene. Schierbaum said the CDC campus received multiple rounds of gunfire into its buildings, but there were no known injuries there. Police described the gunman as a white male, but they did not identify him and did not give a possible motive. By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-3d84e37e link copied 7:48 PM / August 8, 2025 No civilians were injured, Atlanta mayor says Atlanta Mayor Andre Dickens said at the briefing that no civilians were injured in the shooting. He said a DeKalb County police officer is hospitalized with injuries. Dickens said there were 92 children at a day care center on the CDC campus, who are all safe. Dickens said officials are working to get families reunited with their children at a local school nearby. By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-f050907c link copied 6:49 PM / August 8, 2025 Gunman is dead, police say The Atlanta Police Department said the incident involved a single shooter, who is now dead. Police said there is no longer an ongoing threat. They did not provide any information about how the suspect died. Police also confirmed that a law enforcement official was injured. By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-4f9b58b6 link copied 6:42 PM / August 8, 2025 Shelter in place lifted Emory University said in a social media post a little after 6:30 p.m. that the shelter in place has been lifted, but a police emergency continues. "A police emergency continues on the Emory Atlanta Campus at Emory Point. Avoid the area," the post reads. By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-91c62a2e link copied 6:43 PM / August 8, 2025 Map shows area of shooting Police responded to the Emory University campus in northeast Atlanta, where the headquarters of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is also located. Police responded to reports of an active shooter at Emory University in Atlanta, near the entrance to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, on Aug. 9, 2025. Yasin Demirci/Anadolu via Getty Images https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-41bfe54b link copied 6:26 PM / August 8, 2025 Gov. Brian Kemp thanks first responders Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp said in a social media post that "twice this week, deranged criminals have targeted innocent Georgians." "Each time, brave first responders rushed toward the danger to subdue the shooter and save lives, reminding us of just how crucial they are," Kemp wrote. He said he and his family are "thankful for all those who answer the call to serve and who protect their fellow Georgians. We ask that you join us in holding them in our prayers, along with those harmed this evening near the CDC Center." On Wednesday, five soldiers were wounded when an active-duty sergeant opened fire on his coworkers at Fort Stewart in Georgia. By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-0528015a link copied 6:12 PM / August 8, 2025 Bullet holes reported at CDC building The headquarters of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is located by Emory's campus, and multiple people at the office say there are bullet holes in the windows. There are no reports of injuries at CDC at this time, and people are sheltering in place. https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-4dda39f2 link copied 6:00 PM / August 8, 2025 Georgia AG says office is "horrified" by shooting Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr said in a social media post, "We're horrified by the news out of Emory University and praying for the safety of the entire campus community." Carr said in the post, "We stand ready to assist our law enforcement partners with whatever they may need." By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-58c49f8f link copied 5:45 PM / August 8, 2025 Officer sent to Emory University Hospital One officer was sent to Emory University Hospital, Grady Health told CBS News. No details were released about the officer's condition. By Kierra Frazier https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-34d46303 link copied 5:43 PM / August 8, 2025 FBI responding to the scene A law enforcement source said the FBI is aware of the situation and is coordinating with local authorities. The FBI is responding to the scene. By Pat Milton https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-2515470e link copied 5:40 PM / August 8, 2025 Emory University warns of "active shooter" Police in Atlanta say they are on the scene investigating reports of an active shooter. At about 5 p.m, Emory University posted an emergency alert message saying: "Active shooter on Emory Atlanta Campus at Emory Point CVS. RUN, HIDE, FIGHT. Avoid the area." https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/active-shooter-reported-atlanta-emory-university-cdc/#post-update-398c8c67 link copied More from CBS News Georgia authorities identify suspect in shooting near Emory University ER shooting in Tacoma, Wash. hospital leaves woman dead, man wounded Jim Lovell, Apollo 13 commander, dies at age 97 Why is Instagram's new Map feature controversial, and should you disable it? DOJ subpoenas NY AG over whether she violated Trump's civil rights, source says Atlanta Paula Cohen Paula Cohen is the senior managing editor of CBSNews.com, where she oversees coverage of breaking news and stories on a wide range of topics from across the U.S. and around the world.