Billy Long out as IRS commissioner after just 2 months
Politics Billy Long out as IRS commissioner after just 2 months on the job By Joe Walsh, Joe Walsh Senior Editor, Politics Joe Walsh is a senior editor for digital politics at CBS News. Joe previously covered breaking news for Forbes and local news in Boston. Read Full Bio Joe Walsh, Aaron Navarro Aaron Navarro Digital Reporter Aaron Navarro is a CBS News digital reporter covering the 2024 elections. He was previously an associate producer for the CBS News political unit in the 2021 and 2022 election cycles. Read Full Bio Aaron Navarro Updated on: August 8, 2025 / 5:03 PM EDT / CBS News Report: IRS down almost a third of its workers IRS has lost almost a third of its workers, watchdog finds 04:25 Washington — Billy Long, the commissioner of the IRS, is leaving his post after just two months on the job. President Trump will nominate Long to serve as ambassador to Iceland, the outgoing IRS commissioner said in a statement confirming the news, which was first reported by The New York Times. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent will lead the IRS temporarily, a White House official told CBS News. "I am thrilled to answer his call to service and deeply committed to advancing his bold agenda," Long said in his statement. "Exciting times ahead!" In his last mass email to the IRS's workforce on Thursday, Long told agency employees they could leave 70 minutes early on Friday, two staffers told CBS News. He's offered early dismissals at the end of the week on several occasions, one employee said. "It's Almost FriYay," the email's subject line read, according to the staffers. Long was confirmed by the Senate in mid-June and took over the IRS after some tumult for the tax collection agency's leadership. The IRS has had several interim commissioners since Mr. Trump's return to office in January, including one who lasted for just 48 hours. The Trump administration has aimed to dramatically trim the agency's workforce. A former auctioneer and Missouri Republican congressman, Long was chosen to take over the IRS late last year after previously pushing to repeal much of the tax code during his time in the House. Long isn't an accountant by trade, but Mr. Trump touted his time as a tax adviser. After retiring from Congress in 2023, Long advised businesses on the Employee Retention Tax Credit, drawing criticism from Democrats who noted the credit's high rate of fraud. The IRS has been a focus of the Trump administration's government-wide staff cuts. The agency drew up plans earlier this year to cut its 102,000-person workforce by as much as 40% through a combination of layoffs and voluntary resignations, according to an internal memo obtained by CBS News in April. The cuts were set to begin after April 15, which is the deadline for most Americans to file their taxes. As of May, some 25,000 staffers had left the IRS, a 25% decrease from February levels, according to a report by the IRS's internal watchdog, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. Around 26% of the IRS's revenue agents — the staff who conduct audits — had left the agency by May, the report found. Meanwhile, staff from the Department of Government Efficiency — a cost-cutting team once led by billionaire Elon Musk — sought access to the IRS's tax data system, sparking a lawsuit. Former IRS acting head Melanie Krause left the agency in April over a plan to share tax data with Immigration and Customs Enforcement to help identify undocumented immigrants. She was replaced by Gary Shapley, a longtime IRS agent who became well-known for speaking about alleged political influence in the Hunter Biden tax investigation. But Shapley was ousted after just two days following a dispute between Musk and Bessent. Bessent complained to Mr. Trump that Shapley had been installed at the urging of Musk and sought the president's approval to undo the decision, multiple sources told CBS News at the time. More from CBS News Trump tells military to target Latin American drug cartels, source says Trump nominating top economic aide Stephen Miran to Fed board Watchdog group asks for probe of acquisition of Qatari jet on Trump's behalf Federal judge issues fourth block of Trump's birthright citizenship order Armenia, Azerbaijan leaders sign peace agreement at White House summit Joe Walsh Joe Walsh is a senior editor for digital politics at CBS News. Joe previously covered breaking news for Forbes and local news in Boston. © 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.