NFL Suspends Lions-Falcons Game Due to Major Player Injury
NFL Detroit Lions Atlanta Falcons NFL Suspends Lions-Falcons Game Due to Major Player Injury Published Aug 08, 2025 at 10:12 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 11:46 PM EDT CLOSE X By Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Friday's preseason matchup between the Detroit Lions and Atlanta Falcons was shaping up to potentially have an exciting finish, but disaster struck early in the fourth quarter that saw the game suspended by the NFL. After trailing 10-7 at halftime, the Lions stormed back to take a 17-10 lead after a Jake Bates 57-yard field goal and Kyle Allen touchdown pass in the third quarter to set up what could have been an intriguing fourth quarter. But on the Falcons' final drive of the game, Lions cornerback Morice Norris went down with a scary injury that led to him leaving the stadium in an ambulance. NFL Network's Ian Rapoport later confirmed Norris had suffered head and neck injury. More NFL: Browns Legend Has Strong Words for Shedeur Sanders After NFL Debut Here's the hit on Morice Norris (#26) that knocked him out. Hopefully he'll be ok. pic.twitter.com/xqgOjmO1co — Dan Why-Ner (@ReallyDanWeiner) August 9, 2025 "We have a slight update — Morice Norris was just lifted up into the ambulance and Dan Campbell brought his team together and is now addressing his team," announcer Justin Kutcher said on the broadcast, via On3. "We have not seen any movement out of Morice Norris and our cameras really couldn't get much of a view as they had so many personnel around him trying to take the best care possible. "But there was kind of a chilling moment – it gave you goosebumps – where as they got Morice Norris up (on the backboard), his entire team began to run out onto the field and make like a semi-circle. ... Because all these guys want is to see something from their teammate to know he's OK." Head Coach Dan Campbell of the Detroit Lions reacts during the fourth quarter of the NFL Preseason 2025 game between Detroit Lions and Atlanta Falcons at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on August 8, 2025 in Atlanta, Georgia. Head Coach Dan Campbell of the Detroit Lions reacts during the fourth quarter of the NFL Preseason 2025 game between Detroit Lions and Atlanta Falcons at Mercedes-Benz Stadium on August 8, 2025 in Atlanta, Georgia. Todd Kirkland/Getty Images More NFL: Deion Sanders' 3-Word Reaction to Shedeur Sanders' First NFL TD Turns Heads According to The Athletic's Colton Pouncy, Lions and Falcons players joined hands on the field near the 50-yard line and let the game clock wind down. Eventually both teams agreed to suspend the game with 6:19 left, giving the Lions the win. The scene in Atlanta after Lions DB Morice Norris left the game in an ambulance. Clock continues to run. pic.twitter.com/DrSNy0uTrY — Colton Pouncy (@colton_pouncy) August 9, 2025 Speaking to reporters after the game, Falcons head coach Raheem Morris explained why both teams made the decision not to resume the game. "It was tough to watch, it was tough for the other team to see, getting a teammate hurt that way," Morris said, via On3. "It was the right thing to do for (lions head coach) Dan (Campbell) and his team, and everything they had going on. I thought it was the right thing (to do)... It was just common ground, common courtesy. Just didn't like the look of it." Hours after the game ended, Bleacher Report's James Palmer gave an update on Norris' condition. "UPDATED STATEMENT FROM THE DETROIT LIONS: Morice Norris is in stable condition and has feeling and movement in all his extremities," Palmer posted on X. "He will remain at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta overnight for observation." More NFL: Packers Receive Another Potentially Disastrous Injury Update Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher FOLLOW Share on Twitter Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi