Key Putin Ally Says He Will Not Seek Reelection
World Europe Belarus Alexander Lukashenko Vladimir Putin Russia Russia-Ukraine War Ukraine Conflict Key Putin Ally Says He Will Not Seek Reelection Published Aug 08, 2025 at 10:04 PM EDT CLOSE X By Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Peter Aitken Politics Weekend Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko on Friday said during a video interview with Time magazine that he does not plan on running for another term in office. "No, I don't intend to do that," Lukashenko, 70, told the outlet, a move that would end three decades in power, during which time he closely aligned himself and his country with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Newsweek reached out to the U.S. State Department by submission form outside of normal business hours on Friday evening for comment. Why It Matters Lukashenko, known as "Europe's last dictator," took power in 1994 and has since become one of Putin's closest allies, playing a major role assisting Russia's invasion of Ukraine. He is the only post-Soviet leader Belarus has ever had. While Lukashenko's troops haven't directly joined the war in Ukraine, Russian troops have used Belarusian territory to stage exercises since the beginning of it, and Belarus helped Russia launch its invasion. Belarus has periodically tried to make efforts to create stronger ties with the West, but Lukashenko's ties to Russia have long acted as an impediment. In this pool photograph distributed by Russian state agency Sputnik, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is pictured in Minsk, Belarus, on June 27. In this pool photograph distributed by Russian state agency Sputnik, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko is pictured in Minsk, Belarus, on June 27. Sergei Bobylyov/POOL/AFP via Getty Images What To Know The Belarusian leader has ended a period of speculation and scrutiny by making clear he will not seek another term in office. While acknowledging that his successor may chart a different course for the country, he suggested that they "shouldn't just throw things overboard straight away." This follows victory in an election earlier this year, with his current term not set to end until 2030. Lukashenko moved the election up by six months from its usual summer time frame. His 2020 reelection sparked the largest protests in Belarus' history, lasting months and prompting a severe crackdown resulting in more than 65,000 arrests and sanctions from the West. Many have maintained that the election was rigged. Lukashenko last year hinted that he could be leaving office, saying that the public might need to "get used to the idea that there will be a different president" in response to queries at that time about his intention to remain in power. In this pool photograph distributed by Russian state agency Sputnik, Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko visit the Valaam Monastery on Valaam island in the northern portion of Russia's Lake Ladoga... In this pool photograph distributed by Russian state agency Sputnik, Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko visit the Valaam Monastery on Valaam island in the northern portion of Russia's Lake Ladoga on August 1. More Gavriil Grigorov/POOL/AFP via Getty Images Where Is Belarus? Belarus is a post-Soviet state that borders Russia and covers the northern border of Ukraine. It also edges Poland, Lithuania and Latvia and is a landlocked country, with only some lakes scattered across it. Why Did Belarus Split From Russia? Belarus left the Soviet Union as part of the union's broad dissolution in 1990, and declared total independence shortly thereafter when Russia survived the failed August Coup, when Communists tried to seize control of the remnant union. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Peter Aitken FOLLOW Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi