How to Watch Tigres UANL vs Puebla Live Stream Liga MX, Start Time, TV Channel
Sports Soccer Mexico How to Watch Tigres UANL vs Puebla: Live Stream Liga MX, Start Time, TV Channel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 10:00 PM EDT CLOSE X By Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Tigres UANL has a chance at moving to the top of the Liga MX standings if it can keep up its perfect start to the Apertura season at home to Puebla on Friday. Tigres UANL players celebrate after scoring the team's first goal during the Leagues Cup Phase One match against Houston Dynamo FC at Shell Energy Stadium on July 29, 2025 in Houston, Texas. Tigres UANL players celebrate after scoring the team's first goal during the Leagues Cup Phase One match against Houston Dynamo FC at Shell Energy Stadium on July 29, 2025 in Houston, Texas. Photo by Marcus Ingram/Getty Images How to Watch Tigres UANL vs Puebla When: Friday, August 8, 2025 Time: 11:00 PM ET Where: Estadio Universitario, San Nicolas de los Garza TV Channel: FOX Sports 1, NBC Universo Live Stream: Fubo (Watch now!) Liga MX giant Tigres UANL could move to the Apertura summit on Friday if the club manages to keep up its winning start to the season at home to a Puebla side that's won just one of its three games this term. Guido Pizarro's men have made the ideal start to the Apertura campaign and have also clinched a top-four finish to advance in the Leagues Cup. Tigres sit third in the Apertura table for the time being, but could climb into the driving seat with a convincing win at the Estadio Universitario this weekend. And it just so happens Los Auriazules have won their last four consecutive meetings with Puebla, going undefeated in this fixture since September 2022. Puebla travels to San Nicolas de los Garza, sitting 14th in the table, having booked a narrow win over Santos Laguna in its most recent Liga MX outing. That's after starting the campaign with back-to-back defeats against Atlas and Mazatlan. Friday's showdown will mark the first meeting between these teams since Pablo Guede took charge of Puebla in December 2024. Guede hasn't managed to beat Tigres in four attempts as a manager to date, drawing three times and losing once to date. Live stream Tigres UANL vs Club Puebla on FS1 or NBC Universo with Fubo: Watch the event now! Regional restrictions may apply. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive compensation. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary FOLLOW Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi