Browns Legend Has Strong Words for Shedeur Sanders After NFL Debut
NFL Cleveland Browns Browns Legend Has Strong Words for Shedeur Sanders After NFL Debut Published Aug 08, 2025 at 9:43 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 10:20 PM EDT CLOSE X By Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ After the first three drives of Shedeur Sanders' first preseason start, which included a three-and-out, a turnover-on-downs, and a punt, some likely questioned whether Shedeur Sanders really had a fighting chance in the Cleveland Browns four-player quarterback competition. But Sanders quickly changed that narrative with two impressive touchdown drives in the second quarter and one in the third, and he quickly went from trending on social media for missing open throws to trending for his multi-touchdown performance. Sanders completed 11 of 18 passes for 103 yards and two touchdowns—both to Northwest Missouri State alum Kaden Davis—with a 113.9 passer rating, while rushing for 19 yards on four carries in the first half. More NFL: Deion Sanders' 3-Word Reaction to Shedeur Sanders' First NFL TD Turns Heads The rookie's performance caught the attention of several notable celebrities—his father Deion Sanders, South Carolina women's basketball coach Dawn Staley, Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James, and former All-Pro cornerback Richard Sherman, to name a few—but one that Sanders will likely want to pay attention to is that from legendary Browns QB Bernie Kosar. Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns looks on during the first half of an NFL Preseason 2025 game against the Carolina Panthers at Bank of America Stadium on August 08, 2025 in Charlotte,... Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns looks on during the first half of an NFL Preseason 2025 game against the Carolina Panthers at Bank of America Stadium on August 08, 2025 in Charlotte, North Carolina. More David Jensen/Getty Images The former Pro Bowler and Super Bowl champion (he was Troy Aikman's backup with the world champion Dallas Cowboys in 1994) took to social media to let everyone know that he was impressed with what he saw from Sanders in the first half. "Better than Good 1st Half of Football 🏈 #UMatter #DawgPound @ShedeurSanders," Kosar wrote on X. More NFL: WATCH: Browns' Shedeur Sanders Scores First NFL Touchdown Kosar turned a few heads just last week when he made some cryptic comments about Sanders and the Browns' QB race during a radio interview with 92.3 The Fan. "I would caution fans...let's sacrifice those old veteran guys," Kosar stated. "Don't dissipate the confidence and belief of a young quarterback. We kill more quarterbacks by putting them in there early and stuff. To have the veterans play early, especially in September, I think would be very productive for the long-term careers of the team and the young quarterbacks." Sanders finished his first preseason start with 14 completions on 23 pass attempts for 138 yards, two touchdowns and zero interceptions with a 106.8 passer rating. While he did take two sacks, but he protected the ball, didn't make any egregious decisions, and most importantly he showed he's just as much in the QB competition as Joe Flacco, Kenny Pickett, or Dillon Gabriel. More NFL: Browns, Panthers Players Ejected Following Brawl Shedeur Sanders Sends Clear Message Ahead of Browns Preseason Debut Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher FOLLOW Share on Twitter Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi