Bills Tabbed As Possible Landing Spot for Two-Time Pro Bowl Wide Receiver
NFL Buffalo Bills Carolina Panthers Bills Tabbed As Possible Landing Spot for Two-Time Pro Bowl Wide Receiver Published Aug 08, 2025 at 9:40 PM EDT CLOSE X By Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Writers Page Drew VonScio Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Buffalo Bills continue to search for weapons for star quarterback Josh Allen. As the season draws closer, the options to add are starting to decline. However, Last Word on Sports writer David Latham believes the Bills could pursue Carolina Panthers wide receiver Adam Thielen. TAMPA, FLORIDA - DECEMBER 29: Adam Thielen #19 of the Carolina Panthers catches a pass during the fourth quarter against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Raymond James Stadium on December 29, 2024 in Tampa, Florida.... TAMPA, FLORIDA - DECEMBER 29: Adam Thielen #19 of the Carolina Panthers catches a pass during the fourth quarter against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Raymond James Stadium on December 29, 2024 in Tampa, Florida. More Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images "The Buffalo Bills have the arguably the game's best quarterback in Josh Allen, and his presence alone ensures this team will have an elite offense," wrote Latham. "However, they could use more security at the wide receiver position. The jury is still out on second-round pick Keon Coleman, and while slot receiver Khalil Shakir is a solid player, he shouldn't be the only proven threat on the roster. Adam Thielen may not be a 1,300-yard player at this stage in his career, but he's more reliable than free agent journeyman Joshua Palmer." Coleman was a late bloomer last season with Allen, so the Bills are hopeful that duo can pick up right where it left off. However, the talent behind Coleman is questionable at best and terrible at worst. Adding Thielen as a WR2 makes all the sense in the world for a team like the Bills. Thielen posted 1,000 receiving yards just two years ago, and while he is now 35 years old, he still has a little left in the tank. The Bills would have to get creative if they acquired Thielen. He has a cap hit of $10.1 million this season, and Buffalo is already almost $2 million over the cap. It's not an impossible task, but general manager Brandon Beane would have his work cut out for him. More NFL: Patriots Must Consider Moving on From Perpetually Listless Ex-2nd Round Pick Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Writers Page Drew VonScio FOLLOW Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi