Jets Have Major Roster Decision to Make With Former Third-Round Draft Pick
NFL New York Jets Jets Have Major Roster Decision to Make With Former Third-Round Draft Pick Published Aug 08, 2025 at 9:33 PM EDT CLOSE X By Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Writers Page Drew VonScio Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New York Jets believe they have their quarterback of the future in Justin Fields. Now it's about surrounding him with the best group of wide receivers heading into the season. First-year head coach Aaron Glenn will have some tough decisions to make, but one of the easier ones should be moving on from wide receiver Malachi Corley. EAST RUTHERFORD, NEW JERSEY - DECEMBER 01: Malachi Corley #14 of the New York Jets leaps as he is tackled by Devon Witherspoon #21 of the Seattle Seahawks in the first quarter of a game... EAST RUTHERFORD, NEW JERSEY - DECEMBER 01: Malachi Corley #14 of the New York Jets leaps as he is tackled by Devon Witherspoon #21 of the Seattle Seahawks in the first quarter of a game at MetLife Stadium on December 01, 2024 in East Rutherford, New Jersey. More Luke Hales/Getty Images Corley struggled last season as a rookie with now-Steelers quarterback Aaron Rodgers. He appeared in just nine games for the Jets last season and recorded three catches for just 16 yards with no touchdowns. Yes, you read that correctly: three catches all season. The average receiver is pulling in three to four passes per game. While he only had six targets, it's still an awful season. New York filled its wide receiver room with veterans such as Josh Reynolds, Tyler Johnson and Xavier Gipson to be depth behind Garrett Wilson and Allen Lazard. Corley is going to really have to step it up in the preseason if he wants to make the roster. All three of the depth names above have multiple years of experience in the NFL with Reynolds going into his ninth year in the league. Glenn being a first-year head coach gives Corley some benefit of the doubt in that he has a clean slate. However, the more experienced veterans are going to get the inside track to make the team. It's going to take a lot for Corley to make the team. His best bet may be to hope the Jets decide to keep six receivers on the 53-man roster. He'll get his first chance to make an impression Saturday night against Green Bay. More NFL: Patriots Must Consider Moving on From Perpetually Listless Ex-2nd Round Pick Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Writers Page Drew VonScio FOLLOW Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi