Shedeur Sanders Stats Browns' Rookie Impresses With Multi-TD Performance
NFL Cleveland Browns Shedeur Sanders Stats: Browns' Rookie Impresses With Multi-TD Performance Published Aug 08, 2025 at 9:24 PM EDT Updated Aug 09, 2025 at 10:06 AM EDT CLOSE X By Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Cleveland Browns kicked off their preseason schedule on Friday night with a matchup on the road against the Carolina Panthers. While it was just a preseason game, Shedeur Sanders received the start and brought a lot of eyes to the game. He was given the start due to the fact that both Kenny Pickett and Dillon Gabriel have been nursing injuries. Sanders, who many thought would be a first-round pick in the 2025 NFL Draft, ended up sliding all the way to the fifth round where the Browns traded up to land him. After it was announced by head coach Kevin Stefanski that Sanders would be the starter against the Panthers, questions began swirling about how he would perform in his first NFL game action. Quarterback Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns drops to pass in the first half during the NFL Preseason 2025 game against the Carolina Panthers at Bank of America Stadium on August 08, 2025 in... Quarterback Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns drops to pass in the first half during the NFL Preseason 2025 game against the Carolina Panthers at Bank of America Stadium on August 08, 2025 in Charlotte, North Carolina. More Photo by Jared C. Tilton/Getty Images With his debut officially in the books, Sanders passed the test with flying colors. He did not disappoint the fans who tuned in to watch him play. Sanders played the entire first half and most of the third quarter before being pulled. Read more: Browns, Panthers Players Ejected Following Brawl Throughout the course of the game, Sanders completed 14 of his 23 pass attempts for 138 yards, two touchdowns, and no interceptions. He also ran for 19 yards on four attempts. While there were some slow moments for both Sanders and the offense as a whole, there were plenty of highlight plays as well. Sanders made himself a much more interesting option in the Cleveland four-man quarterback competition. At this point, the Browns are expected to give the Week 1 starting nod to veteran quarterback Joe Flacco. He has been the perceived front-runner to win the job at the beginning of the year, leading up to and throughout training camp. Behind Flacco, Pickett has been viewed as the No. 2 quarterback. Gabriel has been No. 3 on the depth chart. Following tonight's performance, Sanders could start seeing his name being given a better chance to compete for playing time. He showed flashes of the potential that made many project him to be a first-round pick. Read more: LeBron James Reacts to Browns' Shedeur Sanders Strong NFL Debut It will be interesting to see what the coming weeks have in store for the former Colorado Buffaloes standout. Since arriving in Cleveland, Sanders has said all of the right things and now he has shown his talent on the field. Even though it was just a preseason game, the kind of debut that he put together will have Browns fans clamoring for him to be the starter at some point during the 2025 NFL season. For more on the Cleveland Browns and general NFL news, head over to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey FOLLOW Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi