Patriots 2nd-Round Draft Pick Makes Stunning First Impression in Preseason
NFL New England Patriots Washington Commanders Patriots 2nd-Round Draft Pick Makes Stunning First Impression in Preseason Published Aug 08, 2025 at 9:22 PM EDT CLOSE X By JON VANKIN is a journalist and writer. He is the author of five nonfiction books and nine graphic novels. His writing has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, Salon, the L.A. Weekly and dozens of other publications and he has received numerous awards and honors including three New England Press Association awards. In connection with his work, Vankin has made numerous media appearances on such networks as CNN, CNBC, FOX, the BBC and the CBC as well as hundreds of radio stations and podcasts. Vankin in his wide-ranging career has also served as an editor of comic books and newspapers. He is the editor of the NEW YORK TIMES #1 BESTSELLING graphic novel GET JIRO! by the late, great Anthony Bourdain. He co-wrote the hit Off Broadway musical FOREVER DUSTY, and served as a sportswriter and editor at The Daily Yomiuri, the English-language edition of Japan's largest newspaper, the Yomiuri Shimbun, in Tokyo. Writers Page Jon Vankin Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New England Patriots, coming off of two straight, dismal 4-13 seasons did not take long to announce that they intend a major comeback in 2025, as their first game of the NFL preseason kicked off Friday night. The Patriots 2025 second-round draft pick did the honors, as the Patriots hosted the Washington Commanders at Gillette Stadium. Under new head coach Mike Vrabel, the Patriots used the pick in somewhat surprising fashion, taking a running back with the 38th overall selection. FOXBOROUGH, MA - JULY 28: TreVeyon Henderson #32 of the New England Patriots heads to the field during training camp at Gillette Stadium on July 28, 2025 in Foxborough, Massachusetts. FOXBOROUGH, MA - JULY 28: TreVeyon Henderson #32 of the New England Patriots heads to the field during training camp at Gillette Stadium on July 28, 2025 in Foxborough, Massachusetts. Winslow Townson/Getty Images TreVeyon Henderson out of national champion Ohio State — last year's Big Ten leader in yards per carry with 7.1 — became the highest pick of a running back by the Patriots since former coach and general manager Bill Belichick took Georgia's Sony Michel in 2018 with the 31st pick. Henderson quickly announced his presence, and the anticipated resurgence of the six-time Super Bowl-winning Patriots franchise, on the opening kickoff from the Commanders' Matt Gay. Henderson received the kick on the Patriots' goal line — and instantly broke off a 100-yard return for a touchdown, the first time he touched the football in an NFL game, though admittedly a preseason one. TREVEYON HENDERSON 100-YD KICKOFF RETURN TD WITH HIS FIRST NFL TOUCH 😱 (via @Patriots)pic.twitter.com/bPBeLpn3ZR — SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) August 8, 2025 The Patriots' first possession from scrimmage ended with a fumble by quarterback Drake Maye — last year's No. 3 overall draft pick. But on first down the next time the Patriots got the ball, Maye pitched out to Henderson who swung around the left side to run for an 18-yard gain. TreVeyon Henderson moved at x2 speed…pic.twitter.com/sySFe6jzOl — Carlos A. Lopez (@LosTalksPats) August 8, 2025 "The Patriots haven't had a true elite running back since Corey Dillon was in New England in 2004. Still, during the team's 20-year run of success, they were blessed with multitudes of versatile backs who routinely gave defensive coordinators headaches," wrote Ryan McLaughlin of the Fansided Patriots site Musket Fire on Friday. "Enter TreVeyon Henderson, who fits that mold perfectly," McLaughlin continued. "The team is optimistic he can be a better version of James White and Kevin Faulk, who are arguably the best pass-catching running backs in Patriots' history." The preseason game against the Commanders appeared to also announce Vrabel's intention to put increased emphasis on the running game in the Patriots' offense this season. The 18-yard gain was Henderson's only carry of the first quarter, but fifth-year veteran Rhamondre Stevenson ran seven times for 36 yards, and Washington's 2020 third-round draft pick Antonio Gibson, now in his second year with New England, carried three times for 16 yards to open the game. Maye himself ran the ball twice for 16 yards and a touchdown before being removed in favor of backup QB Josh Dobbs. More NFL: Patriots Rookie Already Emerging As Potential 1,000-Yard Breakout Star Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer JON VANKIN is a journalist and writer. He is the author of five nonfiction books and nine graphic novels. His writing has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, Salon, the L.A. Weekly and dozens of other publications and he has received numerous awards and honors including three New England Press Association awards. In connection with his work, Vankin has made numerous media appearances on such networks as CNN, CNBC, FOX, the BBC and the CBC as well as hundreds of radio stations and podcasts. Vankin in his wide-ranging career has also served as an editor of comic books and newspapers. He is the editor of the NEW YORK TIMES #1 BESTSELLING graphic novel GET JIRO! by the late, great Anthony Bourdain. He co-wrote the hit Off Broadway musical FOREVER DUSTY, and served as a sportswriter and editor at The Daily Yomiuri, the English-language edition of Japan's largest newspaper, the Yomiuri Shimbun, in Tokyo. Writers Page Jon Vankin FOLLOW JON VANKIN is a journalist and writer. He is the author of five nonfiction books and nine graphic novels. His writing has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, Salon, the L.A. Weekly and dozens of other publications and he has received numerous awards and honors including three New England Press Association awards. In connection with his work, Vankin has made numerous media appearances on such networks as CNN, CNBC, FOX, the BBC and the CBC as well as hundreds of radio stations and podcasts. Vankin in his wide-ranging career has also served as an editor of comic books and newspapers. He is the editor of the NEW YORK TIMES #1 BESTSELLING graphic novel GET JIRO! by the late, great Anthony Bourdain. He co-wrote the hit Off Broadway musical FOREVER DUSTY, and served as a sportswriter and editor at The Daily Yomiuri, the English-language edition of Japan's largest newspaper, the Yomiuri Shimbun, in Tokyo. JON VANKIN is a journalist and writer. He is the author of five nonfiction books and nine graphic novels. His ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi