How to Watch Seattle Storm vs Las Vegas Aces Live Stream WNBA, Start Time, TV Channel
Sports Basketball Seattle How to Watch Seattle Storm vs Las Vegas Aces: Live Stream WNBA, Start Time, TV Channel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 9:20 PM EDT CLOSE X By Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Two playoff-bound teams meet at Michelob Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada, as the Seattle Storm (16-14) and Las Vegas Aces (16-14) fight for seeding, and with a run, a chance to sneak into home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs. A'ja Wilson #22 of the Las Vegas Aces attempts a basket against the Golden State Valkyries in the third quarter at Chase Center on August 06, 2025 in San Francisco, California. A'ja Wilson #22 of the Las Vegas Aces attempts a basket against the Golden State Valkyries in the third quarter at Chase Center on August 06, 2025 in San Francisco, California. Photo by Eakin Howard/Getty Images How to Watch Seattle Storm vs Las Vegas Aces When: Friday, August 8, 2025 Time: 10:00 PM ET Where: Michelob ULTRA Arena TV Channel: ION Live Stream: Fubo (Watch now!) It appeared as if the Storm were streaking their way up the standings, but a recent three-game losing streak has them back in the middle of the pack. Those three losses came by a combined 10 points, with the most recent being a 91-87 home loss to the league-leading Minnesota Lynx. Nneka Ogwumike put together a fine performance, scoring 23 points on 8-for-12 from the field, grabbing six rebounds, and handing out five assists. The Aces are on a solid streak of their own, having won four of their last five games. On Wednesday night at Golden State, the Aces took a 12-point lead into the fourth quarter, ultimately cruising to a 78-72 win. A'Ja Wilson scored 27 points, going a perfect 11-for-11 from the free-throw line, to go with seven rebounds, three assists, two steals, and two blocks. This will be the fourth and final matchup of the season between the teams, with the Aces winning two of the first three. Live stream Seattle Storm at Las Vegas Aces on Fubo: Watch the event now! Regional restrictions may apply. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive compensation. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary FOLLOW Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi