LeBron James Reacts to Browns' Shedeur Sanders Strong NFL Debut
NFL LeBron James Cleveland Browns LeBron James Reacts to Browns' Shedeur Sanders Strong NFL Debut Published Aug 08, 2025 at 8:44 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 8:48 PM EDT CLOSE X By James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela Contributing Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Cleveland Browns are playing in their first preseason game of 2025, and the polarizing rookie Shedeur Sanders is getting his first start. Sanders took the field to many cheers and began his welcome-to-the-NFL moment. More news: WATCH: Browns' Shedeur Sanders Scores First NFL Touchdown Initially, Sanders and the Browns struggled to keep drives going, and the team stalled on a few offensive series heading into the waning moments of the first quarter. However, a strong special teams play led to the Browns getting the ball back with favorable yardage. Sanders took the field again and threw an accurate pass to Kaden Davis for his first NFL touchdown. The Panthers would take the field again, but also stalled due to a strong Browns defensive stand. When Sanders took the field again, he delivered a huge pass to Luke Floreria. LeBron James #23 of the Los Angeles Lakers looks on against the Miami Heat during the second quarter of the game at Kaseya Center on November 06, 2023 in Miami, Florida. LeBron James #23 of the Los Angeles Lakers looks on against the Miami Heat during the second quarter of the game at Kaseya Center on November 06, 2023 in Miami, Florida. Photo by Megan Briggs/Getty Images More news: Fans Erupt Online After Browns' Shedeur Sanders Throws First Touchdown The pass led to Sanders' second touchdown pass to Davis, which was another incredible tight-window throw. The play from Sanders captured the attention of pundits, fans, and now LeBron James. The Los Angeles Lakers star took to X to react to Sanders' play. That young 🤴🏾 looking good out there! @ShedeurSanders Keep going UP!!! HEAD down on the grind and HEAD high to the most high 🙌🏾🫡 — LeBron James (@KingJames) August 9, 2025 King James stated," That young 🤴🏾looking good out there! @ShedeurSanders Keep going UP!!! HEAD down on the grind and HEAD high to the most high 🙌🏾🫡." Read more: Deion Sanders' 3-Word Reaction to Shedeur Sanders' First NFL TD Turns Heads This is huge praise from the arguable NBA GOAT. James isn't the only person to react to Sanders having a good game, as his father Deion Sanders also took to X to voice his excitement for his son's play. Yes Lawd! Yes! @ShedeurSanders — COACH PRIME (@DeionSanders) August 8, 2025 Sanders stated, "Yes Lawd! Yes! @ShedeurSanders." This was followed by several other posts on X praising his son. At the time of this writing, Shedeur has put together an impressive day that includes 11-for-18, 102 yards, and two touchdowns. He has also stacked on four carries for 19 yards. Shedeur is presumed to start the third quarter as well, getting even more chances to prove that he is worth being on the 53-man roster. The Browns currently have five quarterbacks, including Joe Flacco, Kenny Pickett, Dillon Gabriel, Sanders, and Tyler Huntley. Pickett and Gabriel are dealing with hamstring injuries, which trust Sanders into the starting role. The Browns signed Huntley to back up Sanders through preseason. Flacco is the presumed starter, but he could be unseated if Sanders showcases more elite skills through the rest of his time starting. For more on the Browns and NFL, head to Newsweek Sports. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela FOLLOW Share on Twitter James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi