Police Believe CDC Shooter Thought COVID Vaccine Made Him Sick Report
News Breaking News Shooting Mass Shootings active shooter CDC Police Believe CDC Shooter Thought COVID Vaccine Made Him Sick: Report Published Aug 08, 2025 at 8:34 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 8:14 PM EDT CLOSE X By Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry Live Blog Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The shooter in the deadly gunfire near the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) headquarters on Friday thought he was sick from the COVID vaccine, a law enforcement source told CNN. Police are operating under this theory, the outlet reported. Why It Matters There have been several high-profile shootings this year, including a fatal one in April on the campus of Florida State University. Friday's was the second shooting in Georgia that made headlines in less than a week. On Wednesday, an Army sergeant opened fire on his own unit at the Fort Stewart military base, authorities said. A law enforcement official exits the Emory University hospital in Atlanta on Friday. A law enforcement official exits the Emory University hospital in Atlanta on Friday. Mike Stewart/AP What To Know CNN reported that police are operating under the reported theory regarding the COVID vaccine after speaking with the shooter's family Friday night. The outlet also cited a law enforcement official who was on the scene as saying the shooter was wearing something that looked like a surgical mask. CNN's source said the shooter had multiple rounds of magazines with him and was wearing ear protection. Staff at a nearby deli said they heard what sounded like a string of gunshots. "It sounded like fireworks going off, one right after the other," Brandy Giraldo, chief operating officer of The General Muir restaurant, told the Associated Press. Emory University issued an alert around 5 p.m., warning of an "active shooter" at the campus CVS and urging everyone nearby to "RUN, HIDE, FIGHT. Avoid the area." The Atlanta Police Department (APD) confirmed around 6:45 p.m. that the shooter was dead and that there was no ongoing threat to the campus. APD Chief Darin Schierbaum told reporters during a news conference that the shooter was killed by gunfire, but it was unknown at the time if it was self-inflicted. What People Are Saying CDC Director Susan Monarez, in a statement Friday night: "We at CDC are heartbroken by today's attack on our Roybal Campus, which remains on lockdown as authorities investigate the shooting. A courageous local law enforcement officer gave their life, and another was injured, after a gunman opened fire on at least four CDC buildings." She added:"DeKalb County police, CDC security, and Emory University responded immediately and decisively, helping to prevent further harm to our staff and community. Our top priority is the safety and well-being of everyone at CDC. We are actively coordinating with federal, state, and local partners to fully investigate the shooter and this tragic crime. We are deeply grateful to Governor [Brian] Kemp, Georgia residents, and the American people for standing with us during this difficult time." DeKalb County CEO Lorraine Cochran-Johnson said the officer who was killed in the shooting, whose name has not been released, is survived by his pregnant wife and two children: "This evening, there is a wife without a husband. There are three children, one unborn, without a father. There is a mother and a father, as well as siblings who also share in this traumatic loss." She added: "Let's join together to give this family the support it needs during this traumatic loss." Kemp, the Republican governor, praised the efforts of first responders and referenced the shooting at Fort Stewart, saying in a statement: "Twice this week, deranged criminals have targeted innocent Georgians. Each time, brave first responders rushed toward the danger to subdue the shooter and save lives, reminding us of just how crucial they are." What Happens Next Investigators and law enforcement officials are still examining the circumstances that led the shooter to carry out Friday's deadly rampage. The names of the shooter and the officer who was killed by gunfire have not yet been released. Update 8/8/25, 9:47 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional information and context. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry FOLLOW Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi