Deion Sanders' 3-Word Reaction to Shedeur Sanders' First NFL TD Turns Heads
NFL Cleveland Browns Deion Sanders' 3-Word Reaction to Shedeur Sanders' First NFL TD Turns Heads Published Aug 08, 2025 at 8:18 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 8:19 PM EDT CLOSE X By Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Heading into Friday's preseason matchup against the Carolina Panthers, all eyes were on Cleveland Browns quarterback Shedeur Sanders. The rookie fifth-round pick got the start with Joe Flacco, Kenny Pickett, and Dillon Gabriel all out of the lineup, leaving Sanders and Tyler Huntley as the only two available QBs. Through the first two weeks of training camp, Sanders has mostly practiced with Cleveland's second- and third-team units as he sits fourth on the depth chart with his work cut out for him. Head coach Kevin Stefanski said before the game he expected Sanders to get roughly 50 snaps, meaning he's likely to play at least the first half and possibly into the third quarter. More NFL: WATCH: Browns' Shedeur Sanders Scores First NFL Touchdown The 23-year-old QB let fans know he was more than up for the task, posting a black-and-white photo of himself during practice with 50 Cent's hit song "If I Can't" playing in the background. The lyrics to the song state: "If I can't do it, homie, it can't be done" in a seeming show of confidence heading into what could be the most-watched preseason game in quite some time. Sanders' first few drives on Friday were nothing to write home about. A three-and-out followed by back-to-back punts left some fans questioning whether they should be concerned about the Colorado alum, who was struggling to move the chains. Quarterback Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns walks out the tunnel prior to the NFL Preseason 2025 game against the Carolina Panthers at Bank of America Stadium on August 08, 2025 in Charlotte, North... Quarterback Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns walks out the tunnel prior to the NFL Preseason 2025 game against the Carolina Panthers at Bank of America Stadium on August 08, 2025 in Charlotte, North Carolina. More Jared C. Tilton/Getty Images More NFL: Browns, Panthers Players Ejected Following Brawl But on his fourth drive, Sanders seemingly silenced those critics after hitting receiver Kaden Davis for a 7-yard touchdown strike and tied the game 7-7. Sanders' first NFL touchdown was celebrated by many on social media, but the reaction that stood out the most was from Sanders' dad, Deion. "Yes Lawd! Yes! @ShedeurSanders," Deion wrote on X. Yes Lawd! Yes! @ShedeurSanders — COACH PRIME (@DeionSanders) August 8, 2025 The post caught a lot of attention within minutes, with several fans taking the opportunity to join Deion in celebrating his middle son's achievement. "That had to feel good as a Dad Prime," one fan replied. "They lied Deion 🤣 they said he couldn't play without dad," a second fan quipped. "ACCURACY ON POINT 🎯.. [Expletive] LFG 🤝," a third fan exclaimed. "Let's go nephew🔥🔥🔥🔥 @ShedeurSanders," one user rejoiced. "Threaded the needle on that one!" another user celebrated. Through two and a half quarters, Sanders completed 8-for-14 passes for 63 yards and a touchdown at the time of publication. More NFL: Shedeur Sanders Sends Clear Message Ahead of Browns Preseason Debut Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher FOLLOW Share on Twitter Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi