Woman Sells Couch on Facebook Marketplace, Then Gets Urgent Call From Buyer
Pet Dilemma Cats Instagram Woman Sells Couch on Facebook Marketplace, Then Gets Urgent Call From Buyer Published Aug 08, 2025 at 8:17 PM EDT CLOSE X By Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell Pets Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ A woman sold a couch, but soon after received a frightening and unexpected call from the buyer, leaving her speechless. Darcy Miller, known on TikTok as @darcycass, received an urgent call shortly after selling her couch on Facebook Marketplace from the buyer. The buyer discovered a cat inside the couch. As it turns out, Miller's cat managed to sneak her way into the couch through a tear underneath. She became a stowaway, riding her way to the buyer's home silently and without anyone realizing. Miller rushed to the buyer's home as soon as she heard the news. Her July 28 Instagram video shows her attempting to lure her cat out of the couch, asking why she would do that. And because of the unfamiliar location, her feline hesitated. Newsweek reached out to @darcycass via Instagram for additional information and comment. View this post on Instagram A post shared by Darcy Miller (@darcycass) Miller calmly and carefully talked to her cat, reassuring her that there was nothing to fear. She brought along kitty treats, hoping they would do the trick. The cat's eyes peeked out from under the couch. She looked at the strange room and retreated to her hiding space. But when she heard the crinkle of the treat bag, she took a leap of faith and came out. Miller praised her for being a "brave girl" when she finally stepped all the way out from her hiding spot. Viewer Reactions The Instagram video reached over 292,000 views as of Friday, leaving viewers cracking up over the unfortunate situation, and after knowing Miller successfully got her cat back. "Did you tell them the sofa looks great and she was just the quality control making sure it got there safe?" joked one viewer. Another added: "Sofa on Marketplace: $50. Sofa w/a bonus cat inside: Priceless." A third person said: "Poor baby went for a nap, woke up in a whole new world." What viewers find even crazier is that this wasn't the first video they saw involving couches sold on Facebook Marketplace and cats. Newsweek previously reported on the other incident, when a buyer found a cat crawling out of the couch at 3 a.m. This time, the buyer kept the cat, as the seller said she did not belong to them. Screenshots from a July 28 Instagram video of a cat found hiding in the bottom of a couch after a buyer purchased it off Facebook Marketplace. Screenshots from a July 28 Instagram video of a cat found hiding in the bottom of a couch after a buyer purchased it off Facebook Marketplace. @darcycass/Instagram Do you have funny and adorable videos or pictures of your pet you want to share? Send them to life@newsweek.com with some details about your best friend, and they could appear in our Pet of the Week lineup. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell FOLLOW Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi