Fans Erupt Online After Browns' Shedeur Sanders Throws First Touchdown
NFL Cleveland Browns Fans Erupt Online After Browns' Shedeur Sanders Throws First Touchdown Published Aug 08, 2025 at 8:12 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 8:33 PM EDT CLOSE X By James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela Contributing Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ After the NFL world was wondering how well Shedeur Sanders would play at the professional level, that answer was given with the rookie starting in the first preseason game for the Cleveland Browns. Read more: WATCH: Browns' Shedeur Sanders Scores First NFL Touchdown After a shaky first quarter that led to a few stalled drives, Sanders and company were gifted great yardage on a botched punt from the Carolina Panthers. Sanders returned to the field at the start of the second quarter and delivered a huge touchdown pass to Kaden Davis. Shedeur Sanders finds Kaden Davis for the TD! CLEvsCAR on @NFLNetwork Stream on @NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/uH5pxPho5h — NFL (@NFL) August 8, 2025 With the touchdown in the books, fans erupted online with praise for Sanders. TELL ME THET AINT AN ELITE THROW! — TenebrousVex (@TheTenebrousVex) August 8, 2025 I don’t think you guys are appreciating how accurate this throw was and this was against a starting defense he’s throwing with 2s. — maxxed (@Tangcapz) August 8, 2025 Sanders fit that ball into a tight window Looking good so far 👀 — MJ (@mj_italia_) August 8, 2025 HATERS ARE CRYING SO HARD RN 😂 — Stakit (@stakit_live) August 8, 2025 Crazy throw! What a dot — E.L. Chandler (@ELChandler5) August 8, 2025 START HIM. — Ghost Aeolus (@Aeolus) August 8, 2025 There are few who are voting against Sanders, as he has already become one of the most popular players in the NFL. Even more interesting is that he emerged as the fourth-string quarterback before injuries thrust him into starting the first preseason game. Kenny Pickett and rookie Dillon Gabriel are No. 2 and 3 on the depth chart, respectively, but both are dealing with hamstring injuries. With both out, the Browns chose to bring in Tyler Huntley to act as the backup to Sanders. Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns looks on during Cleveland Browns training camp at CrossCountry Mortgage Campus on July 28, 2025 in Berea, Ohio. Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns looks on during Cleveland Browns training camp at CrossCountry Mortgage Campus on July 28, 2025 in Berea, Ohio. Photo by Nick Cammett/Getty Images More news: Deion Sanders Speaks Out on Browns' Shedeur Sanders Getting First NFL Start Longtime veteran Joe Flacco is the presumed favorite to start, but he is also not playing. The usual case for starting quarterbacks is not to play until the final preseason showdown. Sanders was given a huge chance to start, and he is taking advantage of that in a big way. At the time of this writing, he is currently 8-for-15, 63 yards, one touchdown, three carries for 20 yards. It is clear that the Browns fanbase is backing Sanders, as the telecast has showcased many fans in the stands wearing his jersey. Also, the internet is chock-full of responses from Browns and NFL fans gushing over the touchdown pass. To Sanders' credit, his first NFL touchdown was a beauty. He lobbed it into tight coverage and was still able to showcase his accuracy, which led to the big catch from Davis. Sanders will presumably play well into the third quarter, giving him plenty of time to showcase more of his pro-ready skills. Should he continue to impress in preseason action, he could jump his way into the backup role. Sanders moving up the depth chart is not a guarantee, but he will have more chances to keep playing some good football. For more on the Browns and NFL, head to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela FOLLOW Share on Twitter James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi