FedEx Cup Playoffs Rory McIlroy's Absence Forces Player Council to Rethink Rules
Golf PGA Tour FedEx Cup Playoffs: Rory McIlroy's Absence Forces Player Council to Rethink Rules Published Aug 08, 2025 at 7:52 PM EDT CLOSE X By Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Writers Page Devlina Sarkar Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Rory McIlroy has never been one to shy away from making headlines, but his decision to skip the opening round of the FedEx Cup playoffs has ignited a firestorm of debate across the golf world. The world No. 2 and reigning Masters champion opted out of the FedEx St. Jude Championship in Memphis, citing rest and schedule management. But in doing so, McIlroy may have exposed a loophole in the PGA Tour's playoff format, one that officials are now scrambling to address. PORTRUSH, NORTHERN IRELAND - JULY 19: Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland celebrates an eagle putt on the 12th green during Day Three of The 153rd Open Championship at Royal Portrush Golf Club on July 19,... PORTRUSH, NORTHERN IRELAND - JULY 19: Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland celebrates an eagle putt on the 12th green during Day Three of The 153rd Open Championship at Royal Portrush Golf Club on July 19, 2025 in Portrush, Northern Ireland. (Photo by Warren Little/Getty Images) More The Grand Slam winner's absence was not unexpected. He had hinted as early as last November that he would likely skip Memphis, noting his poor finish there last year and minimal impact on his playoff standing. "I finished basically dead last there this year (2024) and only moved down one spot," McIlroy told The Telegraph last year. With currently 3,444 FedEx Cup points, he's virtually guaranteed a spot in the Tour Championship at East Lake -- even if he also skipped the BMW Championship next week. Yet McIlroy's decision has left many concerned PGA Tour Policy Board player director Peter Malnati told Golfweek he was "very concerned" and hinted at possible future measures to prevent top players from skipping playoff events. "I think there is stuff in the works, and I'll leave it at that," Malnati added. Social media was quick to dub any potential rule change the "Rory Rule." The timing couldn't be riper. With major season getting over, August is dull, and McIlroy's absence has become a lightning rod for debates about player responsibility and the Tour's authority. McIlroy is the only player among the top 70 to skip Memphis. His decision reflects a calculated move to preserve energy for a grueling end-of-year stretch that includes the BMW Championship, the Tour Championship, the Ryder Cup and international events in India and Australia. More Golf: How One Key Change Sparked Akshay Bhatia's Career-Low 62 to Lead St. Jude Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Writers Page Devlina Sarkar FOLLOW Share on TwitterShare on LinkedIn Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi