WATCH Browns' Shedeur Sanders Scores First NFL Touchdown
NFL Cleveland Browns WATCH: Browns' Shedeur Sanders Scores First NFL Touchdown Published Aug 08, 2025 at 7:49 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 8:33 PM EDT CLOSE X By James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela Contributing Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The NFL world has been waiting to see what Cleveland Browns rookie Shedeur Sanders could do as the starter. With his first shot at doing so, the young passer secured his first passing touchdown after the Browns secured a red zone situation from a muffed punt by the Panthers. More news: Browns, Panthers Players Ejected Following Brawl Though Sanders and the offense have moved the chains, they have stalled out each drive without scoring. It wasn't until the waning minutes of the first quarter that the Browns pounced on a muffed punt, setting the team up on the 20-yard line. Shedeur Sanders DOTpic.twitter.com/lE1vwo0zR9 — Underdog NFL (@UnderdogNFL) August 8, 2025 Sanders capped off short yardage with a touchdown pass to Kaden Davis. The pass was on point, as Sanders took his time to line things up. It was a bit scary to see Sanders throw the ball into traffic, but Davis wrapped it up to give the quarterback his first professional touchdown. Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns throws a pass during Cleveland Browns training camp at CrossCountry Mortgage Campus on July 30, 2025 in Berea, Ohio. Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns throws a pass during Cleveland Browns training camp at CrossCountry Mortgage Campus on July 30, 2025 in Berea, Ohio. Photo by Nick Cammett/Getty Images More news: Deion Sanders Speaks Out on Browns' Shedeur Sanders Getting First NFL Start Sanders was thrust into the starting role after it was revealed that both Kenny Pickett and Dillon Gabriel are dealing with hamstring injuries. Joe Flacco is the presumed starter and is not set to suit up during the first preseason matchup against the Carolina Panthers. The Browns also added some insurance in the form of Pro Bowl quarterback Tyler Huntley. Sanders is expected to take most of the starting duties, with Huntley presumably coming in around the third or fourth quarter. Sanders, the Browns' offense was struggling to get things going in the first quarter, despite some solid throws by the young signal caller. He also showcased some great thinking when he rifled off a rush following the Panthers rushing five against him. At the time of this writing, Sanders is 6-for-11, 40 yards, one touchdown, and one rush for 10 yards. Before the preseason showdown began, it was revealed that Sanders would likely get around 50 plays in his debut, but should he throws another touchdown before the second half, he may be pulled. This is just speculation, but the head coach, Kevin Stefanski, could send Tyler Huntley out a little early. More NFL: Bears HC Ben Johnson Reveals Surprising Caleb Williams Decision Fans React to Marshawn Lynch Being Seahawks Credentialed Photographer For more on the Browns and NFL, head to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela FOLLOW Share on Twitter James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi