Tommy Fleetwood Breaks Down 'We'll See' Mindset in Quest to Secure First PGA Tour Win
Golf PGA Tour Tommy Fleetwood Breaks Down 'We'll See' Mindset in Quest to Secure First PGA Tour Win Published Aug 08, 2025 at 7:44 PM EDT Updated Aug 09, 2025 at 3:26 AM EDT CLOSE X By Julio Cesar Valdera Morales is a Newsweek contributor based in Spain. His focus is golf as well as politics and economics. Julio has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously practiced law. Julio earned his Masters Degree at the University of Havana. You can get in touch with Julio by emailing j.morales@newsweek.com. Writers Page Julio Cesar Valdera Morales Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Tommy Fleetwood finished the second round of the FedEx St. Jude Championship leading the way and is well on his way to ending his PGA Tour winning drought. However, the Englishman is taking things in stride, no doubt a result of having experienced this moment so many times. "Maybe this weekend is the weekend and we'll see," he told reporters after his second-round performance. Tommy Fleetwood of England reacts to a tee shot on the seventh hole during the second round of the FedEx St. Jude Championship 2025 at TPC Southwind on August 08, 2025 in Memphis, Tennessee. Tommy Fleetwood of England reacts to a tee shot on the seventh hole during the second round of the FedEx St. Jude Championship 2025 at TPC Southwind on August 08, 2025 in Memphis, Tennessee. Andy Lyons/Getty Images Fleetwood didn't shy away from the elephant in the room -- that he remains winless on the American-based circuit -- but instead gave his perspective on the matter. He also mentioned how he plans to manage his emotions over the weekend. "We'll see," he said. "Happy to put myself in with a chance over the weekend. I think that's exactly where you want to be and keep testing yourself. Yeah, it hasn't happened for me yet out on the PGA Tour but I would much rather be up there and not quite get it done, than not there at all, and who knows ... But look forward to tomorrow first." The eight-time DP World Tour winner and current world No. 15 is arguably the best player among those who have never won on the PGA Tour. He's come close many times; Fleetwood has finished second six times and third five times in 161 tournaments played on the American circuit. The most recent occasion when a victory slipped through his fingers is still fresh in everyone's memory. It happened six weeks ago at the Travelers Championship, when he led by one stroke on the 18th hole, but bogeyed the hole after missing a 6-foot par putt, while Keegan Bradley responded with a birdie to win the event. Tommy Fleetwood shoots opening rounds of 63 and 64 to take the lead at the FedEx St Jude. He said after his round: "Happy to put myself in with a chance over the weekend... who knows, maybe this weekend is the weekend." Is it finally the week? pic.twitter.com/tHlyZ1FlmB — Flushing It (@flushingitgolf) August 8, 2025 The truth is, Fleetwood has displayed high-level golf during the first two rounds of the FedEx St. Jude Championship. At TPC Southwind in Memphis, Tennessee, the Englishman carded eight birdies and a bogey on Thursday, and seven birdies and a bogey on Friday, for a 36-hole score of 13-under. Still, he is by no means resting on his laurels. "Of course, when you shoot two good scores, it's easy to say everything has been going well ..." he told the reporters. "Whatever score I am through two rounds, you're going to have done everything well, but I think still you've got to focus on the good stuff and try and keep that going." The FedEx St. Jude Championship, the first tournament of the PGA Tour playoffs, includes the top 70 players of the season in its field, 69 of whom are competing in Memphis. Only Rory McIlroy missed the event. More Golf: Jordan Spieth Reveals Ryder Cup Tension With Cheeky Keegan Bradley Comment Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Julio Cesar Valdera Morales is a Newsweek contributor based in Spain. His focus is golf as well as politics and economics. Julio has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously practiced law. Julio earned his Masters Degree at the University of Havana. You can get in touch with Julio by emailing j.morales@newsweek.com. Writers Page Julio Cesar Valdera Morales FOLLOW Share on Twitter Julio Cesar Valdera Morales is a Newsweek contributor based in Spain. His focus is golf as well as politics and economics. Julio has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously practiced law. Julio earned his Masters Degree at the University of Havana. You can get in touch with Julio by emailing j.morales@newsweek.com. Julio Cesar Valdera Morales is a Newsweek contributor based in Spain. His focus is golf as well as politics and ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi