Browns, Panthers Players Ejected Following Brawl
NFL Cleveland Browns Carolina Panthers Browns, Panthers Players Ejected Following Brawl Published Aug 08, 2025 at 7:39 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 7:57 PM EDT CLOSE X By Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The 2025 NFL preseason is in full swing and the Cleveland Browns are taking on the Carolina Panthers in tonight's most anticipated game. Shedeur Sanders received his first start in the NFL. Due to both Kenny Pickett and Dillon Gabriel nursing injuries, Sanders not only received the start, but is expected to play quite a few snaps throughout the game. Tyler Huntley will replace him at some point. In the first quarter, all eyes were on Sanders. However, another situation stole the show. Head coach Kevin Stefanski of the Cleveland Browns reacts during the first half against the San Francisco 49ers at Cleveland Browns Stadium on October 15, 2023 in Cleveland, Ohio. Head coach Kevin Stefanski of the Cleveland Browns reacts during the first half against the San Francisco 49ers at Cleveland Browns Stadium on October 15, 2023 in Cleveland, Ohio. Photo by Jason Miller/Getty Images Following a play in the first quarter, the two teams got into a scuffle. A helmet was pulled off and two players were ejected for their actions during the altercation. Read more: Cleveland Browns' 2-Word Shedeur Sanders Message Has Fans Buzzing On the Browns' side, safety Rayshawn Jenkins was ejected. For the Panthers, it was wide receiver Xavier Leggette who was tossed from the game. Here is a video of the brawl, with what appeared to be punches being thrown as well. let’s get negative 😭😭😭 #browns #panthers pic.twitter.com/fwwLv2LUdH — brendan (@topicszn) August 8, 2025 It will be interesting to see if the NFL hands down a bigger punishment to either or both of the players for their actions. Legette, who is a clear lock to make the roster for Carolina, is expected to be a big part of the offense. Last season in his rookie year with the Panthers, he racked up 49 receptions for 497 yards and four touchdowns. Jenkins, on the other hand, is a 31-year-old veteran safety who played the 2024 season with the Seattle Seahawks. He played in 13 games and recorded 53 tackles, two sacks, and a fumble recovery. Clearly, both teams and both players were amped up for the game. However, their respective coaching staffs will not like seeing them get ejected in the first quarter of the preseason opener. Read more: Broncos Receive Shocking Prediction That Chiefs Fans Won't Like All of that being said, all eyes will be on Sanders as the game continues. For a preseason game, there has been a lot more hype surrounding the matchup than many others. Not only have fans had the opportunity to watch one of the hottest names in the NFL getting his first in-game playing time, they were also treated to a football brawl. The game has not been a disappointment in any way, shape, or form. For more on the Carolina Panthers, Cleveland Browns, and general NFL news, head over to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey FOLLOW Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi