FedEx Cup Playoffs Russell Henley Splashes Barefoot Shot to Avoid Bogey
Golf PGA Tour FedEx Cup Playoffs: Russell Henley Splashes Barefoot Shot to Avoid Bogey Published Aug 08, 2025 at 7:37 PM EDT CLOSE X By Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Writers Page Devlina Sarkar Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The FedEx St. Jude Championship is heating up in Memphis, and while Tommy Fleetwood made headlines with four consecutive birdies to close out his second round, it was Russell Henley who delivered the most jaw-dropping moment of the day. On Friday, at Hole No. 3, Henley found his ball resting precariously on the edge of the water at TPC Southwind. But instead of taking a drop, the 36-year-old Georgia native kicked off his shoes, rolled up his pants and stepped inside the water. PORTRUSH, NORTHERN IRELAND - JULY 19: Russell Henley of the United States plays his second shot on the 17th hole during Day Three of The 153rd Open Championship at Royal Portrush Golf Club on July... PORTRUSH, NORTHERN IRELAND - JULY 19: Russell Henley of the United States plays his second shot on the 17th hole during Day Three of The 153rd Open Championship at Royal Portrush Golf Club on July 19, 2025 in Portrush, Northern Ireland. (Photo by Andrew Redington/Getty Images) More Getty Images What followed was a fiery splash shot that stunned fans and commentators. "Oh, how good is that out of the water?" one announcer exclaimed in disbelief, as captured in a video posted by PGA Tour on X. Henley saved par on that hole, keeping himself in contention to continue the battle. Shoes are optional, right Russell? 😅 pic.twitter.com/gVvMrMF1dl — PGA TOUR (@PGATOUR) August 8, 2025 Henley entered the FedExCup playoffs in strong form. On Thursday, he posted a 4-under 66 in Round 1, trailing leader Akshay Bhatia by four strokes. Bhatia had fired a career-best 8-under 62, while Fleetwood followed closely at 7-under par. On Day 2, he started his round at 1:45 p.m. ET alongside Justin Thomas with a par on the opening hole. The five-time PGA Tour winner's season has been quietly impressive. He won the Arnold Palmer Invitational in March and has logged nine top-10 finishes, including a T2 at the Travelers Championship and T10s at both the U.S. Open and The Open Championship. Now Henley's consistency has pushed him into the top six of the U.S. Ryder Cup standings, putting him in line for an automatic spot on Team USA for the showdown at Bethpage Black this September. More Golf: Jon Rahm unveils plan to get LIV Golf's foot in world ranking door Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Writers Page Devlina Sarkar FOLLOW Share on TwitterShare on LinkedIn Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi