Celtics' Jaylen Brown's Shocking Pick for Toughest NBA Player to Guard
NBA Boston Celtics Celtics' Jaylen Brown's Shocking Pick for Toughest NBA Player to Guard Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:52 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 7:57 PM EDT CLOSE X By Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Boston Celtics star Jaylen Brown has developed into being a highly effective NBA player. He's known for being a great scorer, but he's also solid defensively. That being said, there are a lot of extremely talented players around the NBA. Brown has drawn quite a few very difficult matchups. He has had to guard players like LeBron James, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, James Harden, Luka Doncic, and many more. Jaylen Brown #7 of the Boston Celtics reacts after a no foul call against the Sacramento Kings during the second half of an NBA basketball game at Golden 1 Center on March 24, 2025 in... Jaylen Brown #7 of the Boston Celtics reacts after a no foul call against the Sacramento Kings during the second half of an NBA basketball game at Golden 1 Center on March 24, 2025 in Sacramento, California. More Photo by Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images Recently, Brown opened up about who the toughest player he ever guarded was. His pick was shocking. Read more: Knicks Linked to Former MVP as Free Agency Speculation Grows So, who is the most difficult defensive assignment that Brown has gone up against? He revealed that the player is none other than former San Antonio Spurs guard Marco Belinelli. "Marco Belinelli," Brown said. "Marco Belinelli used to light me up, bro. He just used to never stop moving and I used to have to chase him around, the system we had. I used to chase Marco Belinelli around all these different screens, and like, he's not even getting the ball. He's still moving back and forth so you never know when he's about to take off full speed and start running and catch the ball but... just fatigued bro." No one would have guessed that pick if they hadn't heard his answer. Belinelli is a rather forgotten name at this point in time. Belinelli played in 860 career games in the NBA and made 219 starts. He played for nine different teams throughout his career. When all was said and done, Belinelli had career averages of 9.7 points per game to go along with 2.1 rebounds and 1.7 assists. He shot 42.4 percent from the floor and 37.6 percent from the three-point line. Read more: Report: Warriors Showing Interest in Surprising Free Agent More than likely, Belinelli would not be picked by many other NBA players. He simply caused a matchup problem for Brown due to his activity. Heading into the 2025-26 NBA season, Brown will be asked to step up into an even bigger role with the Celtics. Jayson Tatum is set to miss most of the season, if not all of i,t due to a torn Achilles. Brown will be asked to become the No. 1 option on offense for Boston and will need to handle a large workload defensively as well. It will be interesting to see if he can prove that he can be a top player without Tatum on the court. For more on the Boston Celtics and general NBA news, head on over to Newsweek Sports. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey FOLLOW Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi