BetMGM Bonus Code NW150 Claim $150 Bonus For MLB, NFL Preseason Weekend
Betting BetMGM MLB NFL BetMGM Bonus Code NW150: Claim $150 Bonus For MLB, NFL Preseason Weekend Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:30 PM EDT The BetMGM bonus code NW150 will unlock access to a $150 bonus for MLB and NFL preseason games this weekend. The BetMGM bonus code NW150 will unlock access to a $150 bonus for MLB and NFL preseason games this weekend. Winslow Townson/Getty Images By Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett Sports Betting Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW Affiliate Links Independently reported, but earns (or may earn) a commission from products/services mentioned. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Capitalize on a loaded Friday sports slate with the BetMGM bonus code NW150. Secure one of two welcome offers to bet on MLB and WNBA games long with the NFL preseason matchups like Commanders-Patriots. Receive a $150 bonus offer or a $1,500 first bet safety net when you click here and sign up for a new account. The offer you receive depends on where you are when you sign up. Create an account in MI, NJ, PA or WV to bet the $150 bonus offer, which requires a winning $10 bet to get the reward. Or sign up in another eligible state to get the $1,500 first bet safety net. BetMGM Bonus Code NW150 For MLB Friday, NFL Preseason BetMGM Bonus Code NW150 New User Offer Bet $10, Get $150 Bonus (MI, NJ, PA, WV Only) or $1,500 First-Bet Offer In-App Promos Parlay Boost Token, MLB Daily Swing, etc. Terms and Conditions 21+ and Present in Participating States Bonus Last Verified On Aug. 8, 2025 Information Confirmed By Newsweek Today's MLB slate features every team, providing new users with countless betting opportunities. Games like Astros-Yankees, Red Sox-Padres and Blue Jays-Dodger headline the day, although there are several other interesting matchups. The NFL Preseason continues with Lions-Falcons, Browns-Panthers and Commanders-Patriots. The Lions started their preseason with the Hall of Fame Game last week, but the other teams playing on Friday are all playing their first game. We will see several notable rookies, including Shedeur Sanders, who will start for the Browns. The WNBA delivers three games to bet on, too. Use the welcome offer you are eligible for to bet on any of these games. Most users will get the $1,500 first bet offer, so let's start there. You will have the opportunity to bet up to that amount and get a bonus refund if your bet settles as a loss. For example, maybe you want to bet $800 on the Browns and Sanders to get a win. If that does happen, you will get a large payout. If your bet loses, you will get an $800 bonus refund credited to your account. With the $150 bonus offer, you must win your initial $10 bet. So, make sure to look at a wide range of betting options before placing your first bet. Targeting something like a prop bet might bet a smart way to go, as opposed to a moneyline bet. Once you find a bet you are comfortable, place your wager and wait for it to settle to see if you win the bonus bets. Odds For Friday NFL Preseason Games As noted above, we likely will not see much of star players for the teams playing preseason games tonight. However, we will see draft picks take the field for the first time as professionals. Let's take a look at the odds from BetMGM Sportsbook: Lions: -3.5 (-110) / O32.5 (-110) / -190 Falcons: +3.5 (-110) / U32.5 (-110) / +155 Browns: +6.5 (-110) / O32.5 (-110) / +240 Panthers: -6.5 (-110) / U32.5 (-110) / -300 Commanders: +6.5 (-110) / O34.5 (-110) / +220 Patriots: -6.5 (-110) / U34.5 (-110) / -275 Read more NFL preseason betting odds, picks for August 8: CLE-CAR, DET-ATL, WAS-NE Secure BetMGM Bonus Code NW150 Offer Claiming this offer from BetMGM Sportsbook is simple. Just follow the steps below: Click here to go to the registration page Enter bonus code NW150 Turn on location settings to receive the offer you are eligible for Provide basic personal information (name, date of birth, mailing address, phone number, email, etc.) Make initial deposit with secure payment method (credit card, debit card, PayPal account, online banking, etc.) Place initial bet to activate $150 bonus offer or $1,500 first bet safety net Any bonus bets you receive with either offer will expire after one week. Newsweek may earn an affiliate commission if you sign up through the links in this article. See the sportsbook operator's terms and conditions for important details. Sports betting operators have no influence over newsroom coverage. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett FOLLOW Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi