How to Watch New York Liberty vs Dallas Wings Live Stream WNBA, Start Time, TV Channel
Sports New York Basketball Dallas How to Watch New York Liberty vs Dallas Wings: Live Stream WNBA, Start Time, TV Channel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:30 PM EDT CLOSE X By Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New York Liberty (19-10) have an opportunity to separate themselves from the logjam near the top of the WNBA standings as they travel to face the Dallas Wings (8-22), who need to make a run to secure a playoff spot. Paige Bueckers #5 of the Dallas Wings reaches for a loose ball against Natasha Cloud #9 of the New York Liberty during a game against the New York Liberty at College Park Center on July... Paige Bueckers #5 of the Dallas Wings reaches for a loose ball against Natasha Cloud #9 of the New York Liberty during a game against the New York Liberty at College Park Center on July 28, 2025 in Arlington, Texas. More Photo by Stacy Revere/Getty Images How to Watch New York Liberty vs Dallas Wings When: Friday, August 8, 2025 Time: 7:30 PM ET Where: College Park Center TV Channel: ION Live Stream: Fubo (Watch now!) New York is on a two-game winning streak, which includes a previous victory over the Wings, an 85-76 win in New York. The Liberty put forth a balanced effort, overcoming an uncharacteristically quiet night from star Sabrina Ionescu (2-for-9, 9 points). Five different players scored in double figures, led by Jonquel Jones (15) and Leonie Fiebich (14), with Stephanie Talbot scoring 13 off the bench in the win. Dallas continues to search for continuity, as they've dealt with injury issues for much of the season, but they do have a healthy Paige Bueckers leading the way. In the 85-76 loss to the Liberty, Bueckers scored 21 points, grabbed eight rebounds, and dished out four assists. Maddy Siegrist added 13 points off the bench for the Wings, who trailed by just two at halftime. This will be the third and final matchup between the teams this season, after splitting their first two matchups. Live stream New York Liberty vs Dallas Wings on Fubo: Watch the event now! Regional restrictions may apply. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive compensation. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary FOLLOW Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi