How to Watch Commanders vs Patriots Live Stream NFL Preseason, TV Channel
NFL Washington Commanders New England Patriots Friday How to Watch Commanders vs Patriots: Live Stream NFL Preseason, TV Channel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:30 PM EDT CLOSE X By Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the Los Angeles media and spends most of his time covering the NBA, NFL, and MLB. When not writing, he is either playing or watching sports. Writers Page Ben Verbrugge Contributing Sports Network Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Washington Commanders and the New England Patriots will kick off their 2025 preseason at Gillette Stadium on Friday. Washington Commanders vs New England Patriots - NFL Preseason Week 1 Washington Commanders vs New England Patriots - NFL Preseason Week 1 Coley Cleary How to Watch Commanders vs Patriots Date: Friday, August 8, 2025 Time: 7:30 PM ET Channel: WUSA-CBS (Washington, DC), Patriots Preseason Network (New England), MyNetworkTV (WCTX – Hartford- New Haven, CT) Stream: Fubo (TRY FOR FREE) The wait is finally over as the NFL preseason is officially here, and these two squads continue their preparation for their opening games of the regular season during this matchup. We likely will not see many of the stars in action, as all of Jayden Daniels, Drake Maye, and Stefon Diggs will almost certainly get the night off. However, there are still plenty of storylines to follow. TreVeyon Henderson will be the player to keep a close eye on in this matchup if he gets some playing time, especially if you are a fantasy football player looking for a sleeper. Henderson was an explosive runner at Ohio State, and the Patriots' second-round pick should immediately step into the pass-down role in the offense. Look for him to show off his big-play ability in this one. This is a great NFL matchup that you will not want to miss; make sure to tune in and catch all the action. This is not a nationally broadcast game, but it can still be live-streamed locally with Fubo on WUSA-CBS (Washington, DC), Patriots Preseason Network (New England), and MyNetworkTV (WCTX – Hartford- New Haven, CT). It will be aired via tape delay later on NFL Network. Live stream Commanders vs Patriots for free with Fubo: Start your subscription now! Regional restrictions may apply. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive compensation. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the Los Angeles media and spends most of his time covering the NBA, NFL, and MLB. When not writing, he is either playing or watching sports. Writers Page Ben Verbrugge FOLLOW Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the Los Angeles media and spends most of his time covering the NBA, NFL, and MLB. When not writing, he is either playing or watching sports. Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi