Kyle Schwarber NL MVP Odds Can Red-Hot Phillies Slugger Catch Ohtani
Betting MLB Kyle Schwarber NL MVP Odds: Can Red-Hot Phillies Slugger Catch Ohtani? Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:25 PM EDT With 40 home runs through 114 games, could Kyle Schwarber overtake current NL MVP betting favorite Shohei Ohtani? With 40 home runs through 114 games, could Kyle Schwarber overtake current NL MVP betting favorite Shohei Ohtani? Caean Couto/Getty Images By Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett Sports Betting Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW News Article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ When we checked in on the NL and AL MVP odds in late July following the MLB All-Star Break, there wasn't much to break down in either league. In the AL, Yankees star Aaron Judge was shorter than -500 across the board, while Shohei Ohtani was even further ahead of the pack in the NL, at -1600. Though 60-plus games remained in the regular season at that point, Ohtani appeared well on his way to winning the award yet again after capturing it in 2021, 2023 and 2024. Judge's recent injury has opened the door to current MLB home run leader Cal Raleigh, who hit his league-best 42nd home run of the year on July 31. In fact, Raleigh's odds are now as short as +220 (as of August 8), as we'll detail below. Read more MLB MVP odds, best bets: Aaron Judge, Shohei Ohtani already pulling away (July 24) National League MVP Betting Odds But for now, let's ask the question that many baseball fans have been wondering about, especially in Philadelphia in the immediate aftermath of Schwarber's two-home run night vs. the Orioles last Monday: Does Kyle Schwarber, who has hit 40 home runs in 114 games to date this year, have a chance to deny Ohtani his third straight National League MVP trophy? DK FD BetMGM Shohei Ohtani -1400 -1500 -1000 Kyle Schwarber +750 +900 +550 Unfortunately, as you can see above, the short answer right now is, "not exactly." Schwarber, it is worth noting, was available at as short as +500 at some sportsbooks earlier this week. But unfortunately for anyone hoping to see Schwarber stay on Ohtani's heels down the stretch this year, the Dodgers star racked up four total hits -- including a double and a home run -- in his team's last three games on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. The promising news for Schwarber is that three of the Phillies' next four series are against playoff contenders in the Rangers (Aug. 8-10), Reds (Aug. 11-13) and Mariners (Aug. 18-20). With some fireworks in those high-profile series, Schwarber could stay within arm's reach of Ohtani as the schedule inches toward the final month of the regular season. Schwarber, who has hit 10 homers in 18 games since the break, is on pace to finish the season with 57 dingers, but at this point, it seems like he would need to get to 60 -- and top Raleigh -- to steal a significant number of votes from Ohtani. One last note on Schwarber before we turn our attention to the AL race: his 10 homers in 18 games since the break is well ahead of both Raleigh (4) and Ohtani (7). American League MVP Betting Odds DK FD BetMGM Aaron Judge -400 -410 -325 Cal Raleigh +265 +270 +220 Despite hitting just four home runs in his last 18 games since the All Star break, Raleigh's MVP campaign is getting stronger thanks to an injury that favorite Aaron Judge just returned from on August 5. In his first two games back from a right elbow flexor strain he suffered in late July, Judge filled the Yankees' DH spot and went a combined 1-for-6, with a walk and three strikeouts. As long as Raleigh keeps getting on base -- he has 15 hits since the break, including a nine-game streak with a hit from July 20-29 that included multiple 2-hit games -- the AL MVP race could get even more competitive as we get closer to September. And obviously, if Raleigh gets the long ball going again after going yard just once in his last nine games, he could absolutely beat out Judge for this award, so stay tuned to the Mariners breakout star. At the moment, it feels too soon to recommend a bet on Raleigh, but if Judge continues to show the effects of his elbow issue at the plate, a play on Raleigh could be justified sometime within the next week. Newsweek may earn an affiliate commission if you sign up through the links in this article. See the sportsbook operator's terms and conditions for important details. Sports betting operators have no influence over newsroom coverage. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett FOLLOW Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi