Ex-Giants Player Gets Critical Update in QB Battle
NFL New York Giants Ex-Giants Player Gets Critical Update in QB Battle Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:23 PM EDT CLOSE X By Justin Grasso Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Daniel Jones has been engaged in a quarterback battle with the Indianapolis Colts. The former New York Giants quarterback is currently going head-to-head with Anthony Richardson. Heading into their Thursday night preseason battle against the Baltimore Ravens, the Colts made it clear that Richardson would get the nod to start. That wasn't the team declaring that Jones will enter the regular season as his backup. Instead, it was the Colts giving Richardson a chance to show how he looks with the starters again, before handing the keys over to Jones for the second game. The plan was to flip-flop them for the first two weeks. Then, move forward accordingly. Thursday's outing didn't go as planned for Richardson. The often-injured quarterback ran into a similar issue, as he dislocated his right pinkie finger. Jones ended up getting a bulk of the opportunities in the early stages of the game. On Friday, there was a critical update regarding Richardson's injury. According to ESPN's Adam Schefter, Richardson could return to practice as soon as Saturday. Therefore, he could be in line to suit up and play in Indianapolis' second matchup of the preseason. Colts quarterback Anthony Richardson could return to practice as soon as Saturday after sustaining a dislocated right pinkie finger in Thursday night's preseason opener, per @HolderStephen.https://t.co/X4hF4y5NSL — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) August 8, 2025 When Richardson left the field on Thursday night, he threw just three passes. He completed two out of those three passes, producing 21 yards. Jones entered the game and attempted 21 passes. He completed 10 of his attempts for 144 yards. Jones didn't throw for any touchdowns or interceptions. Quarterback Daniel Jones #17 of the Indianapolis Colts looks to pass against the Baltimore Ravens in the first half during the NFL Preseason 2025 game between Indianapolis Colts and Baltimore Ravens at M&T Bank Stadium... Quarterback Daniel Jones #17 of the Indianapolis Colts looks to pass against the Baltimore Ravens in the first half during the NFL Preseason 2025 game between Indianapolis Colts and Baltimore Ravens at M&T Bank Stadium on August 7, 2025 in Baltimore, Maryland. More Patrick Smith/Getty Images With Richardson's early injury shaking up the state of the battle, it's unclear how the Colts will approach the second week of the preseason. On Saturday, August 16, the Colts will take on the Green Bay Packers at home. Even if Jones doesn't get the start, he'll get an opportunity to build on his case to become the full-time starter. With the Giants, Jones appeared in 70 games. He threw for 14,582 yards, 70 touchdowns, and 47 interceptions. As a starter, he notched a 24-44-1 record from 2019 to 2024. After seeing the field for 10 games in 2024, Jones' struggles led the Giants to bench him for a fresh start. The benching eventually led to a split between Jones and the Giants, which placed him on a path to land on the Minnesota Vikings and then the Colts. Meanwhile, Richardson has 15 games under his belt across two years. The young quarterback has produced 2,391 yards, 11 touchdowns, and 13 interceptions since 2023. In 15 starts, Richardson holds an 8-7 record. For more New York Giants and NFL news, head over to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Justin Grasso FOLLOW The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi