Security Cam Captures Dog's Desperate Attempt to See Owner in Office
Funny Dogs Animals Reddit Security Cam Captures Dog's Desperate Attempt to See Owner in Office Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:21 PM EDT CLOSE X By Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell Pets Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Despite being surrounded by doggy friends, one canine couldn't stand the thought of being left without her owner, forcing her to take extreme measures to be reunited, which were caught on camera. This canine gets the best of both worlds—enjoys the perks of socialization and playtime at doggy day care without ever leaving her owner, who is known on Reddit as u/Fit_Wasabi_139. This is because the owner works at the day care. However, being in the same facility and not the same room wasn't enough for her dog, Gracie Mae. On the subreddit channel r/WhatsWrongWithYourDog on Monday, she shared security camera footage of her dog trying everything in her power to be reunited. The owner was working in the office, with a window overlooking the outdoor area where the canines played. One wall separating them was one wall too many for Gracie Mae. Her dog used her front paws to grab onto the windowsill, trying to pull herself up and through the window, back into the comfort of her owner's presence. Gracie Mae's hind legs scratched at the wall in a desperate attempt to give her more leverage. Screenshots from an August 4 Reddit post of a pooch attempting to climb through the window at doggy day care to get to his owner in the office. Screenshots from an August 4 Reddit post of a pooch attempting to climb through the window at doggy day care to get to his owner in the office. Fit_Wasabi_139/Reddit A few dogs huddled around, curious about her plan. One appeared to be on lookout, making sure no one caught her, while the other supervised. But after a few seconds, she threw in the towel. The owner shared in the Reddit post that no one needed to worry; her dog is safe and sound. And with no injuries to report from this unsuccessful attempt, the owner now laughs at the footage the security camera captured. Gracie Mae's plan to be with her owner came as a bit of a surprise, as this isn't the first time she brought her to work. The owner shared in another Reddit post that she adopted Gracie Mae a few months ago, after living in an animal shelter for about six months. The 5-year-old dog is the "sweetest" and "plays so well" at day care whenever she brings her. Newsweek reached out to Fit_Wasabi_139 via Reddit messenger for additional information and comment. The Reddit post reached 215 upvotes as of Friday, with viewers jokingly writing what was going through Grace Mae's mind: "Let me in! LET ME INNNN!" Another added: "Let me in! There's too many dogs out here." Someone pointed out: "Husky was no help at all lol GIVE HIM A BOOST!" Do you have funny and adorable videos or pictures of your pet you want to share? Send them to life@newsweek.com with some details about your best friend, and they could appear in our Pet of the Week lineup. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell FOLLOW Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi