How to Watch Washington Mystics vs Minnesota Lynx Live Stream WNBA, Start Time, TV Channel
Sports Basketball Minnesota How to Watch Washington Mystics vs Minnesota Lynx: Live Stream WNBA, Start Time, TV Channel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:20 PM EDT CLOSE X By Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The best team in the WNBA is in action on Friday night, as the Minnesota Lynx (25-5) host the Washington Mystics (13-16), who sit just one game back of the No. 8 seed in the WNBA playoff picture. Napheesa Collier #24 of the Minnesota Lynx reacts after scoring a three-point shot during the third quarter against the Washington Mystics at Target Center on July 3, 2025 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Napheesa Collier #24 of the Minnesota Lynx reacts after scoring a three-point shot during the third quarter against the Washington Mystics at Target Center on July 3, 2025 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Photo by Ellen Schmidt/Getty Images How to Watch Washington Mystics vs Minnesota Lynx When: Friday, August 8, 2025 Time: 7:30 PM ET Where: Target Center TV Channel: WNBA on ION Live Stream: Fubo (Watch now!) Coach Cheryl Reeve's crew continues to dominate, sitting first in the league in points scored (87.3) and points allowed (75.8). They've won seven of their last eight games, including three in a row. Most recently, they defeated the Seattle Storm 91-87 on the road, behind 20 points from Courtney Williams. Jessica Shepard added 13 points, 13 rebounds, four assists, and two steals in the tight victory. After grinding their way back to .500, the Mystics have dropped three straight games to fall outside of a WNBA playoff spot. Their last outing resulted in a disappointing 78-64 loss to the struggling Chicago Sky, who were playing without Angel Reese. The Mystics got 13 points and four steals from Sonia Citron, with Kiki Iriafen adding 10 in the loss. The Lynx and Mystics have faced off twice so far this season, splitting the two matchups, with the home team winning each. Live stream Washington Mystics vs Minnesota Lynx on Fubo: Start your subscription now! Regional restrictions may apply. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive compensation. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary FOLLOW Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi