Donald Trump Reveals Location of Summit With Vladimir Putin
U.S. Vladimir Putin Donald Trump Russia U.S. Foreign Policy Trump administration Russia-Ukraine War Ukraine Donald Trump Reveals Location of Summit With Vladimir Putin Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:19 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 7:20 PM EDT CLOSE X By Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Writers Page Anna Commander Deputy News Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ President Donald Trump announced Friday that he and Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet in Alaska for a high-stakes summit over the Ukraine war, after saying earlier in the day that it would be a "popular" setting "for a lot of reasons." Newsweek reached out to the White House via email Friday for additional comment. Why It Matters Trump's announcement followed a multi-hour meeting between Putin and U.S. special envoy Steve Witkoff this week and came as Trump pressed for a ceasefire in Ukraine while threatening tariffs and sanctions to compel Russian cooperation. In this pool photograph distributed by Russian state agency Sputnik, Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, shakes hands with U.S. President Donald Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff during a meeting in Saint Petersburg, Russia, on April 11.... In this pool photograph distributed by Russian state agency Sputnik, Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, shakes hands with U.S. President Donald Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff during a meeting in Saint Petersburg, Russia, on April 11. (Photo by GAVRIIL GRIGOROV/POOL/AFP via Getty Images) More What To Know "The highly anticipated meeting between myself, as President of the United States of America, and President Vladimir Putin, of Russia, will take place next Friday, August 15, 2025, in the Great State of Alaska," Trump posted to Truth Social. "Further details to follow. Thank you for your attention to this matter!" Alaska acting as the setting for the Trump-Putin summit carries historical weight: The state used to be Russian territory until it was sold to the U.S. in 1867 for $7.2 million. Russian officials said the two presidents had agreed to meet "in the coming days," a timeline announced by Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov after discussions tied to a visit by Witkoff. Putin had previously suggested the United Arab Emirates as a host, telling reporters the Persian Gulf state would be "one of the more suitable locations" for talks while meeting the UAE president at the Kremlin. Speaking to reporters earlier on Friday, Trump said, "We're going to be announcing later on, were going to have a meeting with Russia, start off with Russia, and we'll announce the location. I think the location will be a very popular one for a lot of reasons." The comments came as Trump's deadline was set to expire for Putin to agree to a ceasefire amid his country's war with Ukraine. Trump also suggested that there could be some "swapping of territories" as part of a broader peace deal between Russia and Ukraine. He made the remark when asked whether Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, whose country Russia invaded in 2022, will have to give up territory as part of a peace deal. "Well, you're looking at territory that's been fought over for 3 1/2 years ... you know, a lot of Russians have died. A lot of Ukrainians have died," Trump told reporters at the White House. "So we're looking at that, but we're actually looking to get some back," the president added. "Some swapping. It's complicated ... but we're going to get some back, we're going to get some switched. There'll be some swapping of territories to the betterment of both, but we'll be talking about that either later or tomorrow." What People Are Saying Charlie Kirk, founder and CEO of conservative Turning Point USA, wrote on X on Friday: "BREAKING President Trump to meet Putin in Alaska next Friday Pray for peace 🙏" John Bolton, former national security adviser to Trump in his first term and now critic, wrote on X on Friday: "Of course Putin wants a summit to happen. Putin hasn't met with an American president since before he invaded Ukraine. He's been pounded with sanctions. In his eyes, a meeting between him and Trump would legitimize him with the West." What Happens Next Trump and Putin are set to meet on August 15 in Alaska. Update 8/8/25 7:17 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional context. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Writers Page Anna Commander FOLLOW Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi