Red Bull F1's New Team Boss Shifts 'Priority' to Yuki Tsunoda
Racing Formula One Red Bull F1's New Team Boss Shifts 'Priority' to Yuki Tsunoda Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:17 PM EDT CLOSE X By Saajan Jogia is a motorsport and automotive writer with over ten years of experience. His passion for cars and motorcycles has been a driving force behind his evolution as a writer. He has extensively covered Formula 1, MotoGP, IndyCar, NASCAR, WEC, and technology for publications including Sports Illustrated, The Sporting News, Newsweek, and Men's Journal. Writers Page Saajan Jogia Sports Contributing Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Red Bull Racing's new CEO and team principal, Laurent Mekies, has confirmed that Yuki Tsunoda will be the team's priority to ensure he is able to perform the way he used to at Red Bull's junior F1 team, Racing Bulls. Tsunoda outperformed most of his teammates at Racing Bulls in the last two years, which resulted in a promotion to Red Bull. The team decided to swap him with Lawson after it was disappointed with the Kiwi driver's performances in the first two race weekends of the season. The decision resulted in Lawson's demotion. However, like other teammates of Max Verstappen, Tsunoda is struggling to adapt to Red Bull's challenger, the RB21, which is reportedly suited to the four-time world champion's driving style. As a result, Tsunoda's performance was immediately affected upon his promotion after the Chinese Grand Prix. Tsunoda worked extensively with Mekies at Racing Bulls. Ahead of the summer break of the 2024 season, he had secured 22 points. However, that tally for 2025 stands at just 10 points. Yuki Tsunoda of Japan and Oracle Red Bull Racing with Laurent Mekies, Team Principal of Oracle Red Bull Racing during the F1 Grand Prix of Belgium at Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps on July 27, 2025 in... Yuki Tsunoda of Japan and Oracle Red Bull Racing with Laurent Mekies, Team Principal of Oracle Red Bull Racing during the F1 Grand Prix of Belgium at Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps on July 27, 2025 in Spa, Belgium. More Mark Thompson/Getty Images Mekies is aware of the Japanese driver's capabilities and has now confirmed that the team is focused on ensuring it can assist Tsunoda perform at his peak. Speaking during the Hungarian GP weekend, where Tsunoda finished in P17, Mekies told Sky Sports F1: "The priority is to give Yuki what he needs to perform. That's where, with regards to the second seat, that's where the priority is. It's what the team is concentrated on. "They have been trying that for a number of races now. We are trying to find ways together to make a further step. You know, Spa was very positive, certainly from that perspective. "Here it's a bit of a tricky weekend overall, so it's probably a bit more difficult to judge. But there is no reason why Yuki's performance cannot be what we have seen in the past. And that's what we are concentrated on right now." Tsunoda's Red Bull contract expires at the end of 2025, and with his future being uncertain, he has just 10 races to prove his racing prowess. Offering a realistic picture of the RB21, the 25-year-old driver hinted that it could take an entire season for him to get used to the car. He said: "Is it true that in terms of confidence, when the condition changes every session, maybe I'm taking a little bit more time compared to where I used to have at VCARB where for example, I knew exactly how the car was going to drive in each set-up, I can go flat out from the first push. "But maybe in the Red Bull, I had to build up, which for me is the right approach. I don't think it's a wrong approach, but just takes a bit of time. I don't know if it's going to take a whole season or not, but at least it's positive that I'm going in the right direction." Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Saajan Jogia is a motorsport and automotive writer with over ten years of experience. His passion for cars and motorcycles has been a driving force behind his evolution as a writer. He has extensively covered Formula 1, MotoGP, IndyCar, NASCAR, WEC, and technology for publications including Sports Illustrated, The Sporting News, Newsweek, and Men's Journal. Writers Page Saajan Jogia FOLLOW Saajan Jogia is a motorsport and automotive writer with over ten years of experience. His passion for cars and motorcycles has been a driving force behind his evolution as a writer. He has extensively covered Formula 1, MotoGP, IndyCar, NASCAR, WEC, and technology for publications including Sports Illustrated, The Sporting News, Newsweek, and Men's Journal. Saajan Jogia is a motorsport and automotive writer with over ten years of experience. His passion for cars and motorcycles ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi