Woman Goes to Pick Golden Retriever—Shares Moment Puppy 'Chose' Her Instead
Heartwarming Dogs Puppies Golden Retriever Animals Instagram Woman Goes to Pick Golden Retriever—Shares Moment Puppy 'Chose' Her Instead Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:17 PM EDT CLOSE X By Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell Pets Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ A woman named Valerie, who was originally unsure about bringing home a puppy, realized the dog made the decision easier for her after they locked eyes during her visit to a breeder. Valerie told Newsweek via TikTok that she passed on the idea of bringing home a golden retriever puppy. But by the time she changed her mind, all the pups on the waitlist had been taken by other people. With the flight already booked to Utah, she decided to go anyway. She wanted to meet the breeder and see how they raised the puppies. As fate would have it, something fell through, and suddenly one pup became available, she said. If that wasn't enough of a sign, Valerie shared in an Instagram video on May 22 under the account @beaux.and.oatie, how the only available puppy, now named Beaux, knew they were meant to be together. He "chose" her with one simple look. During her visit with the puppies, many stood up against the pen, wagging their tails. But soon enough, exhaustion took over and they all fell asleep, except for Beaux. His head tilted up against the pen, eyes locked in with hers. He knew this was his human. "It truly felt like he chose us," she said. The Instagram video's caption reads: "When you know, you know." Screenshots from a May 22 Instagram video of a golden retriever puppy locking eyes with his future owner as the other pups slept. Screenshots from a May 22 Instagram video of a golden retriever puppy locking eyes with his future owner as the other pups slept. @beaux.and.oatie/Instagram Instagram Users React Valerie's video reached over 4.8 million views as of Friday afternoon, with users obsessing over the pup's focus on her, calling the interaction "love at first sight." One user wrote: "He was born to be with you guys. He seriously STOOD out." A second commented: "Meant for each other." And a third added: "Omg little sweet beaux. He just knew." A few users shared how their pups stood out to them, with one having a "lovely little smile," and another resting its head on the owner's lap. But not everyone had similar experiences. Some users wrote that they did the opposite and took a chance on the shy puppies who sat in the corner. Do you have funny and adorable videos or pictures of your pet you want to share? Send them to life@newsweek.com with some details about your best friend, and they could appear in our Pet of the Week lineup. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell FOLLOW Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi