How to Watch Browns vs Panthers Live Stream NFL Preseason, TV Channel
NFL Cleveland Browns Carolina Panthers Friday How to Watch Browns vs Panthers: Live Stream NFL Preseason, TV Channel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 6:00 PM EDT CLOSE X By Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the Los Angeles media and spends most of his time covering the NBA, NFL, and MLB. When not writing, he is either playing or watching sports. Writers Page Ben Verbrugge Contributing Sports Network Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Cleveland Browns and the Carolina Panthers will kick off their 2025 preseason at Bank of America Stadium on Friday. Cleveland Browns vs Carolina Panthers - NFL Preseason Week 1 Cleveland Browns vs Carolina Panthers - NFL Preseason Week 1 Coley Cleary How to Watch Browns vs Panthers Date: Friday, August 8, 2025 Time: 7:00 PM ET Channel: NFL Network (National Broadcast), WEWS-ABC (Cleveland), FOX - WJZY (Charlotte) Stream: Fubo (TRY FOR FREE) The wait is finally over as the NFL preseason is officially here, and these two squads continue their preparation for their opening games of the regular season during this matchup. We likely will not see many of the stars in action, as Joe Flacco and Bryce Young will almost certainly get the night off. However, there are still plenty of storylines to follow. The biggest thing to watch for in this game will be the Browns' quarterback competition. Shedeur Sanders is slated to get the start for Cleveland, and much has been made of the rookie signal-caller since he fell in the 2025 NFL Draft. Sanders is at his best when the lights are bright, so expect him to try and prove the doubters wrong in this one as he looks to at least secure the backup job. This is a great NFL matchup that you will not want to miss; make sure to tune in and catch all the action. Live stream Browns vs Panthers on NFL Network nationally or locally on WEWS-ABC (Cleveland) and FOX - WJZY (Charlotte) for free with Fubo: Start your subscription now! Regional restrictions may apply. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive compensation. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the Los Angeles media and spends most of his time covering the NBA, NFL, and MLB. When not writing, he is either playing or watching sports. Writers Page Ben Verbrugge FOLLOW Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the Los Angeles media and spends most of his time covering the NBA, NFL, and MLB. When not writing, he is either playing or watching sports. Ben Verbrugge is a freelance sportswriter with a journalism degree from CSU Dominguez Hills. He is a member of the ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi