Anaconda, Montana Shooting Suspect In Custody
U.S. Montana Shooting Homicide Manhunt Police Anaconda, Montana, Quadruple Deadly Shooting Suspect in Custody Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:57 PM EDT By Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Peter Aitken Politics Weekend Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Authorities announced Friday that they apprehended suspect Michael Paul Brown near the search area in Anaconda, Montana, following a shooting in a bar that left four people dead. "I am proud of the unrelenting law enforcement effort this week to find and arrest Michael Paul Brown," Attorney General Austin Knudsen said in a statement sent out to reporters. "The support we've seen for the community of Anaconda from across the state and the nation has also been remarkable," Knudsen said. "The families and friends of the victims remain in my prayers." What Happened in Anaconda, Montana? The shooting occurred about 10:30 a.m. August 1 in the Owl Bar, resulting in the deaths of a bartender and three patrons, police said. The victims were identified as Nancy Lauretta Kelley, 64; Daniel Edwin Baillie, 59; David Allen Leach, 70; and Tony Wayne Palm, 74. Brown immediately fled, leading to a manhunt, according to authorities. Law enforcement vehicles are parked at the scene where Michael Paul Brown, suspect in a shooting at a Montana bar that left four people dead, was apprehended on Friday, outside of Anaconda, Montana. Law enforcement vehicles are parked at the scene where Michael Paul Brown, suspect in a shooting at a Montana bar that left four people dead, was apprehended on Friday, outside of Anaconda, Montana. Joseph Scheller/The Montana Standard via AP Who Is Montana Shooting Suspect Michael Paul Brown? Brown, 45, lived next door to the Owl Bar in Anaconda. Anaconda-Deer Lodge County police named him as the suspect in the shooting around 2 p.m. on the day of the killings. In a post to Facebook, law enforcement advised that Brown was "believed to be armed and dangerous." According to a U.S. Marshal notice issued last week, Brown is a veteran of the U.S. Army who was deployed to Iraq in 2004 and 2005. Upon leaving the Army, he joined the Montana National Guard, where he remained from 2006 to 2009. Authorities reported that he had been seen heading west into Stump Town and disappeared into a wooded area, where law enforcement conducted its search. Brown's niece Clare Boyle told the Associated Press that Brown had struggled with mental illness for years. Where Was Michael Paul Brown Apprehended? Multiple law enforcement agencies conducted a thorough search for Brown across the area, and Knudsen earlier this week said that it did not appear that he had broken into any homes or cabins to get food or supplies. The search covered around 22 square miles of forest, which authorities closed off to public access. Authorities found and detained Brown about 2 p.m. Friday. He remains in custody of the Anaconda-Deer Lodge County authorities. Knudsen and other officials will hold a news conference Friday evening to provide further details. This article includes reporting by the Associated Press. Update 8/8/25, 6:41 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional information. Law enforcement apprehended Michael Paul Brown on Friday, outside of Anaconda, Montana. Law enforcement apprehended Michael Paul Brown on Friday, outside of Anaconda, Montana. Joseph Scheller/The Montana Standard via AP fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Peter Aitken FOLLOW Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi