Medicare Will Start Using AI to Help Make Coverage Decisions Next Year
U.S. Medicare Health and Medicine Health Care Health Insurance Artificial Intelligence Tech Medicare Will Start Using AI to Help Make Coverage Decisions Next Year Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:53 PM EDT CLOSE X By Suzanne Blake is a Newsweek reporter based in New York. Her focus is reporting on consumer and social trends, spanning from retail to restaurants and beyond. She is a graduate of UNC Chapel Hill and joined Newsweek in 2023. You can get in touch with Suzanne by emailing s.blake@newsweek.com. Languages: English Writers Page Suzanne Blake Reporter, Consumer & Social Trends Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Starting in January, Medicare will test out an artificial intelligence (AI) pilot program to decide whether patients get certain procedures covered or not. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) will use AI to help make prior authorization decisions via the new Wasteful and Inappropriate Service Reduction (WISeR) Model, but the final decision will be made by an employee, according to the agency. Why It Matters AI has made a significant impact in the workforce, education, health care and beyond. While some remain hesitant about its usage and the possibility of it eliminating human jobs, AI tools have been linked to greater efficiency for many companies. While traditional Medicare has typically had fewer prior authorization requirements than Medicare Advantage, the use of AI could speed up coverage decisions and also potentially lead to higher denials of coverage, experts say. A sign in front of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services building is pictured on March 19 in Woodlawn, Maryland. A sign in front of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services building is pictured on March 19 in Woodlawn, Maryland. Kayla Bartkowski/Getty Images What To Know While the final decision by Medicare to approve or deny coverage will come down to an employee, critics of the AI test pilot say that companies conducting the review process will be incentivized to deny coverage because they receive payments when they lower costs. The move toward AI arrives as the Trump administration has made it a priority to reduce government fraud and waste, and Medicare Part B premiums are likely to increase by $21.50 per month, from $185 in 2025 to $206.50 in 2026, according to MarketWatch. Some of the specific services included in the AI-powered prior authorization decisions will be skin and tissue substitutes, electrical nerve-stimulator implants and knee arthroscopy for knee osteoarthritis. In the past, traditional Medicare enrollees face fewer prior authorization decisions. The average number of them required per Medicare Advantage enrollee was two in 2023, compared to just one review per 100 traditional Medicare beneficiaries. "For seniors, the impact could be substantial, especially when immediate care is critical," Kevin Thompson, CEO of 9i Capital Group and host of the 9innings podcast, told Newsweek. "The current administration is focused on removing so-called waste, fraud, and abuse, pulling every lever to show their program is working. What used to require a single prior authorization could now face multiple layers, which means more delays and higher denial rates." The AI pilot will take place over the next six years and will not apply to inpatient-only services or for procedures that carry high risks if delayed. At the moment, the pilot program is limited to Arizona, New Jersey, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas and Washington. What People Are Saying CMS Administrator Dr. Mehmet Oz, in a statement: "CMS is committed to crushing fraud, waste, and abuse, and the WISeR Model will help root out waste in Original Medicare. Combining the speed of technology and the experienced clinicians, this new model helps bring Medicare into the 21st century by testing a streamlined prior authorization process, while protecting Medicare beneficiaries from being given unnecessary and often costly procedures." Alex Beene, financial literacy instructor for the University of Tennessee at Martin, told Newsweek: "For many Americans, the term 'Medicare Advantage' has left them asking what the real advantage was, as plans haven't worked out in some parts of the country as efficiently as originally promised. With that in mind, the announcement Medicare will start piloting the use of AI as a possible pre-authorization procedure for potential recipients in six states and the citing of Medicare Advantage's additional authorization steps is raising concerns - and rightfully so." Thompson also told Newsweek: "AI may speed up processing times in theory, but mistakes are inevitable. The bigger concern is how the financial incentives are structured. If contractors are rewarded for reducing or denying coverage, that's exactly what will happen—more denials. It's as simple as following the money. Whether a treatment is truly necessary or not becomes secondary to the incentive structure." What Happens Next The AI usage could have significant impacts on the number of procedures that Medicare beneficiaries get approved for coverage. According to a 2024 Senate committee report, AI tools have been linked to higher rates of care denial, 16 times higher than decisions made without the technology. "Medicare recipients want an easy process with as many barriers removed as possible when qualifying and receiving services," Beene said. "AI can certainly be used to refine the process, but as it's been presented, there's justification for the red flags being raised." fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Suzanne Blake is a Newsweek reporter based in New York. Her focus is reporting on consumer and social trends, spanning from retail to restaurants and beyond. She is a graduate of UNC Chapel Hill and joined Newsweek in 2023. You can get in touch with Suzanne by emailing s.blake@newsweek.com. Languages: English Writers Page Suzanne Blake FOLLOW Suzanne Blake is a Newsweek reporter based in New York. Her focus is reporting on consumer and social trends, spanning from retail to restaurants and beyond. She is a graduate of UNC Chapel Hill and joined Newsweek in 2023. You can get in touch with Suzanne by emailing s.blake@newsweek.com. Languages: English Suzanne Blake is a Newsweek reporter based in New York. Her focus is reporting on consumer and social trends, spanning ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi