Fever Superstar Caitlin Clark Again Throws Shot at WNBA Referees
Sports Basketball Fever Superstar Caitlin Clark Again Throws Shot at WNBA Referees Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:40 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 5:41 PM EDT CLOSE X By Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Indiana Fever are trying to stay alive in the WNBA playoff race. Unfortunately, they remain without superstar Caitlin Clark on the court. She has been dealing with a groin injury that has kept her out for quite some time. Even more unfortunate for the Fever has been the lack of any kind of return timetable. No one knows when Clark will be able to get back on the court. As of right now, Indiana holds a 17-14 record. Following a clutch five-game winning streak, the Fever have lost their last two games. It's clear that they are missing Clark's scoring and playmaking ability in a big way. Caitlin Clark #22 of the Indiana Fever looks on before the game against the Dallas Wings at American Airlines Center on August 1, 2025 in Dallas, Texas. Caitlin Clark #22 of the Indiana Fever looks on before the game against the Dallas Wings at American Airlines Center on August 1, 2025 in Dallas, Texas. Photo by Ron Jenkins/Getty Images Recently, Clark made an appearance with Sue Bird on the "Bird's Eye View" podcast. She talked about a variety of different topics. Read more: Angel Reese May Have Bigger Plans Beyond the Sky, WNBA When Bird asked her about coaching up her teammates from the sideline, Clark took the opportunity and fired some subtle shade at WNBA officials. "More so coaching the refs," she said. "I would make a good ref. I wouldn't miss a call." Clark has had her run-ins with WNBA referees throughout her first two seasons. She has also received more than her fair share of hard fouls and cheap shots. Throughout her second WNBA season, Clark has only been able to play in 13 out of the 31 games Indiana has played. When she has been on the court, Clark's production has taken a hit by dealing with the nagging injuries she has been forced to play through. In her 13 games played, Clark has averaged 16.5 points per game to go along with 8.8 assists, five rebounds, and 1.6 steals, while also shooting 36.7 percent from the floor and knocking down 27.9 percent from the three-point line. Read more: WNBA Punishes Fever's Sophie Cunningham for Second Time in 2 Weeks ESPN's injury report has had a suggested return date for Clark listed as August 12 against the Dallas Wings. With that date just a few days away and no positive updates being shared about her, that might not be realistic. Hopefully, some good news will come out about Clark in the near future. Until then, the Fever will have to simply tread water and try to stay within striking distance of the playoffs. During that time, Clark will continue being the team's biggest cheerleader from the sideline. Make sure to follow Newsweek Sports for all Indiana Fever and WNBA news and updates. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey FOLLOW Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi