Active Shooter Reported at Emory University, Gunshots Heard Nearby
News Breaking News active shooter Gunman Mass Shootings CDC Officer Killed in Shooting Near Emory University, CDC: What We Know Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:33 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 7:20 PM EDT CLOSE X By Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Writers Page Anna Commander and Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry Deputy News Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The shooter in the gunfire that killed a police officer and rattled Atlanta's Emory Point—near headquarters of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Emory University campus—is dead, police said on Friday evening. An active shooter alert was issued around 5 p.m. Friday. The Atlanta Police Department (APD) said on X around 6:45 p.m. that the incident involved a single shooter and that there was no ongoing threat to the campus. No civilians were injured. The department asked for people to avoid the area, as the scene was still active. Newsweek reached out to Emory University via email on Friday for additional information. Why It Matters There have been several shootings this year, including on a college campus, when fatal gunfire broke out in April at Florida State University. What To Know In a Friday night news conference, APD Chief Darin Schierbaum told reporters that the shooter was found on the second floor of the CVS on the Emory University campus, with a gunshot wound. It was unknown at the time if it was self-inflicted. When asked about reports that the shooter believed he may be sick due to the COVID vaccine, Schierbaum said he could not confirm any motive at the time. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention headquarters sign on Friday is seen behind a police blockade in Atlanta. (Jeff Amy/AP) AP DeKalb County firefighters gather outside an Emory University medical building in Atlanta on Friday. Jeff Amy/AP A law enforcement official on Friday exits the hospital of Emory University in Atlanta. Mike Stewart/AP "We are in the early stages of the investigation," he said, adding that police had the "same questions you have" about the shooter's motivations. Witnesses told CNN they had seen a man dressed in black, point a rifle at the CDC center on Friday afternoon and heard multiple gunshots. The alert from Emory University, issued at 5 p.m., warned of an "active shooter" at the campus CVS and urged everyone nearby to "RUN, HIDE, FIGHT. Avoid the area." Emory Hospital and the university went into lockdown. Witness Randy Gould told CNN on Friday that he was leaving the hospital, with his recently discharged father in a wheelchair, when he saw doctors and nurses running toward them, "screaming there's an active shooter." In an update to its X account at 5:59 p.m. ET, the university wrote, "UPDATE: Continue to shelter in place, law enforcement on scene." In a subsequent update at 6:27 p.m. ET on X, the school wrote that the "police emergency continues. Remain in place. Updates to follow." The Associated Press (AP) reports CDC employees said that windows in several buildings were sprayed with bullets. UPDATE https://t.co/1fMSB6K6gR pic.twitter.com/tBN7lJpqtl — Atlanta Police Department (@Atlanta_Police) August 8, 2025 What People Are Saying DeKalb County CEO Lorraine Cochran-Johnson, according to the AP: "This evening, there is a wife without a husband. There are three children, one unborn, without a father." FBI Atlanta posted to X on Friday: "FBI Atlanta is aware of the incident on Clifton road in Dekalb County and is enroute and coordinating with local partners for any assistance that might be needed." The Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) posted to X on Friday: "The GBI has been requested to investigate an OIS [Officer-Involved Shooting] that occurred on Clifton Rd. in DeKalb County today. Agents are on scene. The investigation is active and ongoing. Once we get info from our agents, we will release more details." Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr said on X Friday: "We're horrified by the news out of Emory University and praying for the safety of the entire campus community. We stand ready to assist our law enforcement partners with whatever they may need." Georgia Republican Governor Brian Kemp posted to X: "Marty, the girls, and I are thankful for all those who answer the call to serve and who protect their fellow Georgians. We ask that you join us in holding them in our prayers, along with those harmed this evening near the CDC Center." What Happens Next? Investigators are expected to canvass the area, review surveillance footage and coordinate among campus security, Atlanta police and federal partners as needed as the investigation unfolds. Update 8/8/25, 11:16 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional information. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Writers Page Anna Commander and Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry FOLLOW Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi