Thousands Face Freezing Weather in Summer as Temperatures Drop 50 Degrees
U.S. Weather Temperatures Wyoming National Weather Service Thousands Face Freezing Weather in Summer as Temperatures Drop 50 Degrees Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:32 PM EDT CLOSE X By Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Anna Skinner Senior Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Thousands of people were warned of freezing weather on Friday afternoon as temperatures across parts of Wyoming were set to drop around 50 degrees Fahrenheit from where they were mid-week as a cold front sweeps across the region. Why It Matters National Weather Service (NWS) meteorologists issued a freeze warning for the Upper Green River basin and Upper Green River Basin foothills on Friday ahead of sub-freezing temperatures expected overnight. The sudden burst of freezing weather could damage crops and vegetables this early in the season. What to Know Earlier this week, areas that saw high temperatures in the mid-80s will be hit by a blast of chilly weather that will drop to 30 degrees. Bondurant and Daniel, Wyoming, are forecast to see Saturday morning lows at 32 degrees or lower. Other areas that could see temperatures near freezing are Jackson Hole Valley, Star Valley, and the lowest elevations of southern Lincoln County, such as Cokeville. Around 9,000 people will be impacted by the cold temperatures. The freeze warning is set to remain in effect from 1 to 8 a.m. local time on Saturday. NWS meteorologist Taylor Wittmann told Newsweek that the average frost date for the area is later in August. Average low temperatures for this time of year are around 44 degrees. "It's not too unusual," he said. "It's a little early." When assessing data that goes back to 1998, Wittman said the earliest 32-degree day was August 4. Meteorologists warned about the incoming cold front earlier in the week. "A cold front sweeps across the region Friday and cooler air follows," NWS Riverton posted on X on Wednesday. "A clearing sky, diminishing wind, and a very dry near-surface layer of air will drop Saturday morning lows to around freezing in the far west valleys and basins. This pattern is similar to August 2016." A stock image shows a thermometer in cold temperatures. A stock image shows a thermometer in cold temperatures. BrianAJackson/Getty What People Are Saying NWS Riverton in a freeze warning: "Sub-freezing temperatures as low as 30 expected. Colder temperatures around Bondurant. Frost and freeze conditions could kill crops, other sensitive vegetation and possibly damage unprotected outdoor plumbing." NWS Riverton in a post on X on Friday: "Freeze Warnings are in effect across portions of southwest WY tonight. Tonight, clear skies, coupled with the cooler air will lead near or even below freezing temperatures overnight across the valleys in southwest and western WY." An infographic included with the post said: "Farmers should be aware that cold temperatures can damage sensitive vegetation if they aren't protected. Cover sensitive crops that may be harmed by frost or freezing temperatures or move cold-sensitive plants indoors, if possible." What Happens Next? Temperatures will dip into the 30s again on Sunday morning, Wittman said. Next week, temperatures look as though they will undergo a warm-up, with highs returning to the 80s. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Anna Skinner FOLLOW Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi