Republican Lawmakers Speaking Out Against Redistricting Battle
Politics Republicans Gerrymandering Congress Texas Republican Lawmakers Speaking Out Against Redistricting Battle Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:24 PM EDT CLOSE X By Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Boston Globe. He is a graduate of Emerson College. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.stanton@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Andrew Stanton Weekend Staff Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ As the redistricting arms race heats up, a handful of Republican lawmakers have been critical of the Texas GOP's effort to redraw its state's congressional boundaries. Why It Matters Texas, with the support of President Donald Trump, kicked off the redistricting battle with a map that would place five Democrats in districts he won by double digits in last year's election. That effort is on pause as Democratic legislators left the state to deny a quorum for a vote. But other states, led by Democrats and Republicans, could follow suit. What To Know Some Republicans have criticized states like California and New York mulling redraws but have not commented on Texas. But at least three Republican members of Congress have voiced opposition to Texas' redistricting efforts while also criticizing Democratic states' efforts to redraw their maps. Representative Kevin Kiley, a California Republican, speaks during a press conference in Los Angeles on February 20, 2025. Representative Kevin Kiley, a California Republican, speaks during a press conference in Los Angeles on February 20, 2025. PATRICK T. FALLON/AFP via Getty Images Representative Kevin Kiley, California Kiley has introduced a bill that would prohibit any state from engaging in mid-decade redistricting. During an interview with WBUR, Boston's NPR affiliate, on Friday, Kiley voiced opposition to the Texas efforts. "I don't think gerrymandering is a good thing. I think it's a problem wherever it occurs, whether it's in a Republican state or a Democrat state, and I especially think it's bad when it's happening in an unscheduled way, as we're seeing right now," Kiley said. When asked about whether it is appropriate for Texas Democrats to be pressured to return—whether by threats to remove the lawmakers who left the state from office or have the FBI locate them—Kiley said people watching the redistricting battle are thinking, "This is nuts." "This is not the way that the process is supposed to work," he said. "This is not the way politics and representative government is supposed to work, and I think the whole spectacle just underscores the need to have a return to sanity here." If California redraws its map, Kiley's district could be redrawn to take in more Democratic areas. Trump carried the district by about four points last year, though Kiley won reelection by about 11 points. Representative Mike Lawler, New York Lawler is another Republican whose district could be at risk of becoming more Democratic if New York redraws its map. He already represents a district won by former Vice President Kamala Harris last November and is a top target for Democrats as they try to reclaim a House majority. He has introduced a bill to end partisan gerrymandering nationwide as well as mid-decade redistricting. He told CNN this week that he believes what Texas is doing is "wrong." "The problem is that across the country, gerrymandering has been happening after each successive census, and it's created less competitive districts," he said. "There's very little room in terms of trying to pick up seats." Representative Blake Moore, Utah Moore has also spoken out against the redistricting efforts by Texas. "I do not agree with state efforts to redistrict mid-decade. It undermines established norms and gives blue states a glaring green light to do the same," he told local news station KSL. "Partisan gerrymandering is clearly done by both sides, but to allow this wildfire to spread mid-decade is a step too far." When reached by Newsweek, a Moore spokesperson referred to that statement. Newsweek also reached out to Kiley's and Lawler's offices for comment via email. Representative Thomas Massie, a Kentucky Republican, shared a meme about the redistricting battle, comparing Texas Democrats leaving the state to Republicans leaving Washington to avoid a vote on legislation to compel the release of the Epstein files. What People Are Saying House Speaker Mike Johnson, a Louisiana Republican, told Fox News: "California has a problem. They've got to amend the state Constitution, as I understand the law out there, to do it. We have to fight for every inch of ground in the country. We are in an era of very small margins, as you said, because of gerrymandering and redistricting. But they have to follow the law. I'm convinced the red states will, and we will probably have a few more seats out of that, of course, and that's good news for me." New York Governor Kathy Hochul, a Democrat, said during a press conference on Monday: "If Republicans are willing to rewrite these rules to give themselves an advantage, then they're leaving us no choice; we must do the same. There's a phrase, 'You have to fight fire with fire.' That is a true statement of how we're feeling right now. And as I've said, another overused but applicable phrase, 'All is fair in love and war'— that's why I'm exploring with our leaders every option to redraw our state congressional lines as soon as possible." What Happens Next On Friday, Republicans in Texas were again denied a quorum to pass their redistricting effort. GOP leaders in the state have been considering expulsion of members who left the state, and the FBI could locate the lawmakers. How other states' redistricting efforts play out remains to be seen. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Boston Globe. He is a graduate of Emerson College. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.stanton@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Andrew Stanton FOLLOW Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Boston Globe. He is a graduate of Emerson College. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.stanton@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi