Patriots Must Consider Moving on From Perpetually Listless Ex-2nd Round Pick
NFL New England Patriots Patriots Must Consider Moving on From Perpetually Listless Ex-2nd Round Pick Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:13 PM EDT CLOSE X By Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Writers Page Drew VonScio Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New England Patriots wide receiver room continues to expand with talent and bodies, which will lead to some tough decisions in the next few weeks. One of those tough decisions could come in the form of second-year wide receiver Ja'Lynn Polk who didn't see much action last season. The 23-year-old receiver was taken 37th overall in last year's draft, but he hardly produced as a rookie for New England. He caught just 12 passes (on 33 targets) for 87 yards and two touchdowns. MIAMI GARDENS, FLORIDA - NOVEMBER 24: Ja'Lynn Polk #1 of the New England Patriots looks on against the Miami Dolphins during the fourth quarter of the game at Hard Rock Stadium on November 24, 2024... MIAMI GARDENS, FLORIDA - NOVEMBER 24: Ja'Lynn Polk #1 of the New England Patriots looks on against the Miami Dolphins during the fourth quarter of the game at Hard Rock Stadium on November 24, 2024 in Miami Gardens, Florida. More Megan Briggs/Getty Images Not every rookie receiver will come in and light it up like Ladd McConkey did for the Los Angeles Chargers, but Polk's rookie stats were abysmal to say the least. Even after Drake Maye took over as the starter, Polk still did not get much of an opportunity and wasted lots of chances he did receive. Factor in the addition of Mack Hollins to the receiver room, and there's a real chance Polk could be out of a job. In the first unofficial depth chart, the Patriots listed Polk among the top six wide receivers. With most teams rostering no more than six receivers, he's barely making the cut. However, unofficial depth charts as very unreliable. The team could prefer Hollins to him and just want to showcase they're giving Polk a chance. Polk is one of many players who will need to have a strong preseason to prove to Mike Vrabel and the coaching staff that he deserves to stay. Vrabel has reportedly stated everyone has a clean slate, but Polk's roster spot is far from secured. More NFL: Josh Allen Speak Out as James Cook Continues Holdout In at Buffalo Bills Camp Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Writers Page Drew VonScio FOLLOW Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with Newsweek since December 2024 and also works full-time at WTOV, a TV station in Steubenville, Ohio. He is a 2023 graduate of Bethany College (WV) and a 2024 graduate of the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. You can get in touch with Drew by emailing d.vonScio@newsweek.com. Drew VonScio is a Newsweek contributor based in Pittsburgh, PA. His focus is on MLB content. Drew has been with ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi