Amy Acton's Chances of Beating Vivek Ramaswamy in Ohio—Polls
Politics Vivek Ramaswamy Governor Ohio Sherrod Brown Polls Amy Acton's Chances of Beating Vivek Ramaswamy in Ohio—Polls Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:12 PM EDT CLOSE X By Nick Mordowanec is a Newsweek investigative reporter based in Michigan. His focus includes U.S. and international politics and policies, immigration, crime and social issues. Other reporting has covered education, economics, and wars in Ukraine and Gaza. Nick joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Oakland Press, and his reporting has been featured in The Detroit News and other publications. His reporting on the opioid epidemic garnered a statewide Michigan Press Association award. The Michigan State University graduate can be reached at n.mordowanec@newsweek.com. Writers Page Nick Mordowanec Staff Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Republican Vivek Ramaswamy and Democrat Amy Acton are predicted to be in a neck-and-neck race to be Ohio's next governor between now and November 2026, according to various polls. Why It Matters Acton, a physician and former director of the Ohio Department of Health under Republican Governor Mike DeWine, is attempting to break a long cycle of Democrats falling short in Ohio's biggest elections as the state has shifted considerably red since Barack Obama's presidency. Ted Strickland was the last victorious Democrat to serve as governor, from 2007 to 2011. Ramaswamy, a billionaire entrepreneur, is 20 years younger and has followed in the mold of President Donald Trump on policy and bravado. He has touted wanting Ohio to become "the state of excellence." He ran for the GOP presidential nomination, entering the race in February 2023 and dropping out in January 2024. Newsweek reached out to both campaigns for comment. Ohio voters walk to drop off their ballots at the Board of Elections in Dayton on April 28, 2020. Ohio voters walk to drop off their ballots at the Board of Elections in Dayton on April 28, 2020. MEGAN JELINGER/AFP via Getty Images What To Know Multiple polls have been released since Acton and Ramaswamy announced their candidacies, with Ramaswamy earning huge support from the Ohio Republican Party and Trump. Acton is the lone Democrat running. The most recent poll released August 5 by Impact Research shows the race in a "dead heat," with Acton trailing by one percentage point, 47 percent to 46 percent. Another 7 percent remained undecided. Acton is also consolidating Democratic support and leads by 8 percent among independents, 48 percent to 40 percent, with 11 percent undecided. "In what is shaping up to be an incredibly competitive race, Ramaswamy is well-known but has lackluster popularity among Ohio's voters," the pollster said. "Meanwhile, Amy Acton is better-liked by voters who know her, keeping the race incredibly close, driven by an eight-point lead with independent voters. Further, Acton has room to grow and takes the lead after voters learn more about her." Republican 'Elephant In The Room' A web-based poll of 800 registered Ohio voters, conducted from April 18-24 by The Democracy and Public Policy Network at Bowling Green State University (BGSU), showed Ramaswamy with a wide lead over other Republicans, including Ohio Attorney General Dave Yost, who has all but disappeared from the race. Robert Alexander, professor of political science and founding director of the Democracy and Public Policy Network at BGSU, told Newsweek via phone on Friday that the big question in Ohio is whether Acton can defeat Ramaswamy in a head-to-head matchup. One way she can differentiate herself is by leaning into her perception as a "scrappy Youngstown kid" and painting her opponent as being "more the kind of corporate elites." Another "big question mark" considering Ramaswamy's affinity for Trump is how tariffs will continue to impact the economy in months ahead, he said. But even so, he noted how Ohio has self-adjusted from a so-called "purple" state in major elections to one of a darker red—from the governor to the Legislature. There's also questions regarding whether former national championship-winning football coach Jim Tressel, formerly at Ohio State University, will run for the Republican nomination. He also served as school president of Youngstown State University. Earlier this year, Tressel was appointed by DeWine as Ohio's lieutenant governor. "Jim Tressel's kind of a little interesting elephant in the room," Alexander said. "He doesn't have a political past. He's kind of a mainline Republican. DeWine hand-picked him as his lieutenant governor. He's making the rounds in this state. "He hasn't, I don't think, said 'no' to running for governor. I think he's kind of just sitting back and paying attention to what's going on. And if Trump's fortunes sink a little bit in the state, or where Ramaswamy gets tied into some kind of scandal or corruption or some kind of taint is put on him, I wouldn't be surprised if there's some 'draft Tressel' calls." 'Cute' Fundraising The Acton campaign, in an email to Newsweek on Friday, touted their candidate for raising $1.35 million. The campaign's 33,000 contributions from more than 17,000 donors were record setting. But when asked about Acton's fundraising, the Ramaswamy campaign told Newsweek: "That's cute." They referenced how their candidate is also shattering records, raising $9.7 million in four months. Tied From The Start In February, an Ohio Public Policy Polling survey found Acton with a 1-point lead over Ramaswamy, 45 percent to 44 percent. Both candidates had a net positive favorability rating (31 percent for Acton, 41 percent for Ramaswamy), yet 42 percent said they weren't yet sure at the time of their opinion of Acton, to 20 percent who said the same about Ramaswamy. Other key findings from that survey included, by a 60 percent to 21 percent margin, voters saying they trusted a medical doctor when it comes to health care over a billionaire Biotech executive. Another 40 percent chose Acton over Ramaswamy (26 percent) when asked who Ohioans trust and relate to the most. What People Are Saying Amy Acton campaign manager Philip Stein, in a press release: "Dr. Acton is the candidate to beat corporate billionaire Vivek Ramaswamy in 2026, and Ohio voters are fired up about her candidacy. Every day on the campaign trail, Amy hears from Ohioans impacted by high costs and health care cuts who are ready for change. They know that someone who rose from a tough childhood in Youngstown to be a doctor, saving lives in Ohio and beyond, understands what they are going through and will fight for them. And that's exactly what Dr. Acton will do as governor." Former Ohio Governor Ted Strickland told WOSU Public Media on August 7: "I told [Acton], 'You know, I so admire you. But I'm waiting to see what Sherrod [Brown] and Tim [Ryan] do.' And then I said, 'Amy, if you were governor, you may be a better governor than either Sherrod or Tim. And they're both good friends of mine." What Happens Next The 2026 Ohio gubernatorial election is scheduled to take place on November 3, 2026. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Nick Mordowanec is a Newsweek investigative reporter based in Michigan. His focus includes U.S. and international politics and policies, immigration, crime and social issues. Other reporting has covered education, economics, and wars in Ukraine and Gaza. Nick joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Oakland Press, and his reporting has been featured in The Detroit News and other publications. His reporting on the opioid epidemic garnered a statewide Michigan Press Association award. The Michigan State University graduate can be reached at n.mordowanec@newsweek.com. Writers Page Nick Mordowanec FOLLOW Nick Mordowanec is a Newsweek investigative reporter based in Michigan. His focus includes U.S. and international politics and policies, immigration, crime and social issues. Other reporting has covered education, economics, and wars in Ukraine and Gaza. Nick joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Oakland Press, and his reporting has been featured in The Detroit News and other publications. His reporting on the opioid epidemic garnered a statewide Michigan Press Association award. The Michigan State University graduate can be reached at n.mordowanec@newsweek.com. Nick Mordowanec is a Newsweek investigative reporter based in Michigan. His focus includes U.S. and international politics and policies, immigration, ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi