Scientists Reveal Secrets to Getting Your Cat to Love You
Pets Cats Animals Study Scientists Reveal Secrets to Getting Your Cat to Love You Published Aug 08, 2025 at 5:00 PM EDT CLOSE X By Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell Pets Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ As independent creatures, cats often get a reputation that they are hard to win over, but scientists might have cracked the code to building a stronger bond. A study published in the Journal of Veterinary Behavior presented 413 participants with a questionnaire based on the Cat/Dog-Owner Relationship Scale, or C/DORS, which measures the quality of the bond between felines and their owners—the first of its kind conducted in Spain. Results found the quality of an owner-cat relationship is related to factors such as lifestyle, breed, time spent alone, type of housing, behavioral problems and the number of cats living together. Thirteen of the 22 variables affected the relationship between cats and humans, while nine did not. Owners, or future pet parents, should consider the following factors when wanting to strengthen their bond with their cats, according to the study. A stock image of a woman holding a gray and white cat in her arms. A stock image of a woman holding a gray and white cat in her arms. Olezzo/Getty Images The Study's Findings Understanding Signals Cats are deliberate with every move. They use their eyes, tails and meows to communicate. Owners who understand their cat's vocalizations and signals tend to report stronger bonds. Learning a cat's signals can help identify signs of pain, fear, stress and more. Purebred vs. Mixed Breeds The study found purebred cats have a more positive relationship than non-pedigree felines, also known as mixed breeds, due to their predictable behaviors from selective breeding practices and tracing their ancestry. They tend to be more interactive. However, mixed-breed cats are adaptable and low-maintenance. They are often considered more independent than purebreds. Acquisition of Cats Owners who adopted or picked up felines as strays resulted in a "superior level of owner-rated attachment" when compared to those who purchased cats. The authors believe this could be due to a strong emotional connection adopters feel. They take on a humanitarian responsibility. While those who purchase cats, usually from breeders or pet shops, generally seek a specific breed, age, size or temperament. Behavioral Issues A cat's behavior, when moderate or severe, can erode a bond with an owner. Problematic behaviors might include aggression, house soiling or activity throughout the night. The impact depends on how the owner perceives the behavior. Time Spent Together To strengthen the bond with your cat, consider the amount of time spent together. The study found that cats who are left alone for less than four hours have a higher-quality relationship with their humans. Home Impacts Based on the study's answers, cats who live in apartments have a higher quality relationship with their humans. This may be due to proximity, more shared space and frequent interaction—like sleeping in their owner's bed. Apartment-living cats also have a stronger bond because owners tend to purchase more toys, spend more time together, allow them to use household objects and even celebrate their birthdays. Multi-cat homes can also positively impact the relationship between them and their owners. Felines might feel less alone. Owners of more than one cat tend to be more invested, understanding their signals and communication. There tends to be more interaction and higher engagement. Owners should be aware of the potential anxiety and stress cats might experience when living with other pets. The study did not find a significant impact of indoor versus outdoor cats on the relationship between them and humans. Improving Bonds While the overall relationship between owners and cats from this population remained strong, with an average score of 78.78 out of 100 on relationship quality, there is always room for improvement. The study noted some factors, including a cat's breed, are unable to be changed once adopted or brought home. However, owners can increase bonding time, learn the way felines communicate and how to correctly deal with unwanted cat behaviors before they lead to a strain on the relationship. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell FOLLOW Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi