Pomeranian Chases Black Bear After It Broke In—Security Cam Captures It All
Wildlife Dogs Bears Animals TikTok Canada Viral video Pomeranian Chases Black Bear After It Broke In—Security Cam Captures It All Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:50 PM EDT CLOSE X By Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell Pets Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ A security camera captured the moment a bear entered a home in Canada, but the wild animal did not realize a guard dog was home. Kayla Kleine told Storyful that a bear regularly visits the family's yard in Vancouver. This time, however, the furry trespasser saw the door left open and seized his opportunity. He entered the home on Monday and began eating her 3-year-old Pomeranian's breakfast. Protective of not only the house but also his food, Scout decided to defend his rights, setting aside any potential fears and seemingly forgetting the size difference. The 5-pound dog came sprinting from another room, chasing the bear straight out of the house and incessantly barking. Kleine shared the footage on her TikTok account @kaylakleine, which reached 4.5 million views and 737,300 likes within three days of posting. Scout didn't stop once the bear ran off. He followed the bear outside, leaping off the deck with determination, making sure the bear wouldn't come back. Meanwhile, Kleine sprinted behind, grabbing bear spray, terrified it would end differently. But the feisty Scout didn't care. He chased the bear to the fence and continued to bark, warning him to stay away. Kleine told Newsweek that once she saw the bear over the fence and Scout proudly barking, she laughed, relieved he was safe. Kleine said she was getting ready in the other room with music playing, which is why she never heard the bear inside. She then heard Scout's food bowl moving against the floor. This concerned her as her husband was away on a work trip and Scout was sitting on the bed. She suspects the bear was inside for about four minutes before Scout went after him. A follow-up video shows Scout proudly standing in the backyard, keeping watch on the perimeter. The text on the clip reads: "He's been like this ever since he defeated the bear." Screenshot from a TikTok video of a bear entering a home in Vancouver, eating the dog's food before being chased off the property. Screenshot from a TikTok video of a bear entering a home in Vancouver, eating the dog's food before being chased off the property. @kaylakleine/TikTok TikTok Users React Stunned by the tiny dog's determination to chase out the bear, TikTok users flooded the comments section. But once they discovered the dog was a Pomeranian, they hilariously thought it checked out. Small dogs tend to act big and tough. One user wrote: "He jumped all the steps. Was on a mission." Another jokingly asked: "Do either one of them know what type of animal they are?" And a third commented: "They deserve all the treats!! Protecting their family." Do you have funny and adorable videos or pictures of your pet you want to share? Send them to life@newsweek.com with some details about your best friend, and they could appear in our Pet of the Week lineup. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Liz O'Connell FOLLOW Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined Newsweek in 2023 and had previously worked at PetHelpful.com, the Charlotte Business Journal, and The Anson Record. She is a graduate of the University of Arizona. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Liz by emailing e.oconnell@newsweek.com. Liz O'Connell is a Newsweek Reporter based in North Carolina. Her focus is on pet news and videos. Liz joined ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi