Aaron Boone Gives Grim Injury Update For Yankees' Deadline Addition
MLB New York Yankees Aaron Boone Gives Grim Injury Update For Yankees' Deadline Addition Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:48 PM EDT CLOSE X By Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New York Yankees came into the trade deadline with massive holes on the roster. They needed to add to the bullpen and starting rotation. At the deadline, the front office opted to add heavily to the bullpen while standing pat with the rotation. On the offensive side of things, the Yankees desperately needed to add a third baseman more than anything. They solved this issue by adding Amed Rosario, Jose Caballero, and Ryan McMahon. The Yankees also added platoon outfielder Austin Slater from the Chicago White Sox. Slater played in a few games with the Yankees and went 0-for-7 with four strikeouts before suffering a leg injury that found him on the injured list. NEW YORK, NEW YORK - JULY 30: Austin Slater #29 of the New York Yankees looks on during a game against the Tampa Bay Rays at Yankee Stadium on July 30, 2025 in New York... NEW YORK, NEW YORK - JULY 30: Austin Slater #29 of the New York Yankees looks on during a game against the Tampa Bay Rays at Yankee Stadium on July 30, 2025 in New York City. More Jim McIsaac/Getty Images Aaron Boone recently announced that Slater would be out for four to six weeks with a hamstring strain, per Chris Kirschner of The Athletic. Slater wasn't a huge addition for the Yankees. He was added to provide depth and a solid bench bat for Boone's squad, but it doesn't look like he's going to be a piece of the puzzle for the next month or two. Hamstring injuries tend to nag on a lot longer than expected, too. So, Boone's projection of four to six weeks could very easily turn into six to eight weeks if the injury nags on longer than expected. Either way, the Yankees are going to be down one of their big league players for the next month and a half or so. More MLB: Blue Jays Predicted To Cut Ties With $63 Million Hurler After Shane Bieber Trade Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell FOLLOW Share on Twitter Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi