Micah Parsons Blockbuster Why Bills Make No Sense As Landing Spot
NFL Buffalo Bills Dallas Cowboys Micah Parsons Blockbuster? Why Bills Make No Sense As Landing Spot Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:42 PM EDT CLOSE X By Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Earlier this offseason, Dallas Cowboys superstar edge rusher Micah Parsons requested a trade from the team amid a contract dispute. Recently, Bleacher Report's Kristopher Knox suggested Parsons would be the Cowboys' best trade chip ahead of the regular season. "Dallas has a recent history of waiting until the last minute to reach contract agreements," Knox wrote. "This led to massive deals for wideout CeeDee Lamb and quarterback Dak Prescott—who now makes $5 million more per year than any other player. Parsons is now set to top the $41 million annually that T.J. Watt will make on his new deal. "If Parsons is prepared to leave, the Cowboys should see what they can get in return. They're unlikely to be serious Super Bowl contenders within the next few seasons, and paying more than $130 million per year for three players would be hard to justify if they aren't. Trading Parsons would likely bring back a pair of first-round picks and more. The Cowboys owe it to themselves to see just how high his price tag might go." ORCHARD PARK, NEW YORK - DECEMBER 17: Micah Parsons #11 of the Dallas Cowboys walks on the field prior to the game against the Buffalo Bills at Highmark Stadium on December 17, 2023 in Orchard... ORCHARD PARK, NEW YORK - DECEMBER 17: Micah Parsons #11 of the Dallas Cowboys walks on the field prior to the game against the Buffalo Bills at Highmark Stadium on December 17, 2023 in Orchard Park, New York. The Bills won 31-10. More Rich Barnes/Getty Images If Parsons is on the trade block, every team in football, including the Buffalo Bills, needs to check in on a trade. But does this idea even make sense for Buffalo? From a roster perspective, this move makes a lot of sense. The Bills need another star on the defensive side of the football, and every team in the league could benefit tremendously from adding Parsons. Buffalo also has the draft and player capital to get a deal done. But this trade doesn't make sense because the Bills have no money to spend. The entire issue with Parsons and the Cowboys is his contract, so if Dallas has to trade him, it'll be to a team that can sign him to a long-term deal worth a lot of money. The Bills can't afford to do that. As fun as this idea would be, the Bills would need to clear well over $40 million off their books per season to afford Parsons. It's possible, but it's impractical and very, very unlikely. More NFL: Patriots Rookie Already Emerging As Potential 1,000-Yard Breakout Star Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell FOLLOW Share on Twitter Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi