Reform councillor denies Pride event assault
Reform councillor denies Pride event assault 2 days ago Share Save Anna Jameson BBC News, Manchester Share Save Cheshire West and Chester Council Amanda Clare will appear at Chester Crown Court in December Reform UK councillor Amanda Clare has denied assaulting a security guard at a Pride event earlier this year. The councillor, who represents Winsford Dene on Cheshire West and Chester Council, was arrested at the town's LGBTQ+ event on 28 June. Appearing at Chester Magistrates' Court, the 54-year-old, from Malpas, pleaded not guilty to assaulting security guard Richard Welsh and damaging his camera. The councillor told the court she had acted in self-defence. Last month, she was suspended from her job working for Runcorn and Helsby Reform MP Sarah Pochin pending criminal proceedings. In a statement, a spokesperson for Ms Pochin said: "On June 29 we were made aware of serious allegations involving a member of staff. "She was immediately suspended from her position pending the outcome of the investigation. "We operate a zero-tolerance policy towards any suggestion of disorderly or inappropriate conduct. "While we fully respect the right to due process and a fair hearing, it would not be appropriate for the individual to continue in her role at this time." 'A disturbance' Clare was a member of the Labour Party when she was first elected in Winsford Dene ward in 2019, but left in March 2022 to join the Socialist Labour Party. She then became a member of the Party of Women, before joining the Winsford Salt of the Earth Party, ultimately settling as an Independent in July 2024. She joined Reform UK in March this year. Cheshire Constabulary said it was called to reports of a "disturbance" at the Winsford Pride event at 16.30 BST on 28 June. A statement by Cheshire Police and the Crown Prosecution Service said: "We would like to remind everyone that criminal proceedings against Clare are live and that she has a right to a fair trial. "It is extremely important that there should be no reporting, commentary or sharing of information online which could in any way prejudice ongoing proceedings." Judge John McGarva granted Clare bail on the grounds she does not contact Mr Richard Welsh. The case has been adjourned until December, and will be heard at Chester Crown Court. Read more stories from Cheshire on the BBC, watch BBC North West Tonight on BBC iPlayer and follow BBC North West on X. You can also send story ideas via Whatsapp to 0808 100 2230. Related internet links HM Courts & Tribunals Service Winsford Reform UK Malpas Cheshire Related Bird flu confirmed at commercial poultry farm Reform councillor on assault charge suspended Reform councillor charged after Pride event arrest More from the BBC 23 hrs ago Butcher's 50 years at market where he got first job Geoff Hughes says he has no plans to retire at his popular Chester market store. 23 hrs ago 23 hrs ago 'A huge plume was drifting down terraced streets' A deliberate blaze in August 2024 was deemed a major incident with hundreds forced from their homes. 23 hrs ago 1 day ago Accused councillor tells court his partner 'snapped' Ashley Farrall, 43, denies charges of strangulation and trying to pervert the course of justice. 1 day ago 1 day ago Builder joins DIY SOS in honour of business partner Congleton builder Chris Price volunteers his services in memory of his friend Mike Braithwaite. 1 day ago 1 day ago Drained canal blamed on vandals looking for likes The Canal and River Trust says a bid for social media approval is behind careless opening of locks. 1 day ago