WATCH Fire Breaks Out At Spain's Iconic Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba
News Breaking News Fire Spain Tourism LIVE Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba Fire: Huge Blaze at Historic Site Aug 08, 2025 at 4:41 PM EDT Live Aug 08, 2025 at 8:06 PM EDT Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba Fire: Huge Blaze at Historic Site By Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry and Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Peter Aitken Live Blog Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW Live Blog Continuous updates; facts and sources are still being cross-checked. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5x Speed: 1x Speed: 1.5x Speed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ A massive fire has broken out at the iconic Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba in Spain. Firefighters are responding to the blaze at the major tourist attraction and UNESCO-listed heritage site in Andalusia. Footage shows thick smoke billowing out from the millennia-old building as flames lapped at its roof. Firefighters managed to get control of the blaze and extinguish it in just over an hour, with a cause for the blaze under investigation. Newsweek's live blog is closed. WATCH: Fire breaks out at the Mosque Cathedral of Córdoba (La Mezquita de Córdoba) in Spain. pic.twitter.com/bb4AY6wBWq — AZ Intel (@AZ_Intel_) August 8, 2025 08:06 PM EDT WATCH: Fire Breaks Out At Spain's Iconic Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba 05:35 PM EDT How Much Did Notre Dame Cost To Repair After Major Fire? The fire at Córdoba will recall the memory of France's Notre Dame Cathedral, which suffered a catastrophic fire that gutted the building in 2019. Money poured in to ensure the iconic building was rebuilt, with some donating millions, including Kering CEO François-Henri Pinault, LVMH CEO Bernard Arnault, and L'Oreal owners the Bettencourt Meyers Family. The rebuild ended up costing a staggering $737 million, and was completed in just over five years with a grand reopening in December 2024. 05:12 PM EDT What started the Córdoba Mosque fire? Suspected cause revealed The fire at Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba may have begun from a short circuit in an electric sweeper, local media reports. El Mundo reports that the blaze began shortly after 9 p.m. local time in one of the chapels in the Almanzor naves, which is typically used to store the maintenance staff's belongings. It then quickly spread to the roof. 05:06 PM EDT Firefighters have got the blaze under control, reports local media Firefighters from the city of Córdoba are still battling to extinguish the fire at the Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba but local reports say the blaze is mostly contained as of 10 p.m. local time. The extent of damage is not yet clear. 04:59 PM EDT Where is the Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba? The Mosque–Cathedral of Córdoba (also known as the Mezquita–Catedral de Córdoba) is located in the historic city of Córdoba, in the Andalusia region of southern Spain. This iconic monument stands at the heart of the city's historic center, right near the Roman Bridge and Puerta del Puente. As one of the most significant buildings in Islamic and Christian architectural history, it began as a grand mosque in the 8th century and was transformed into a cathedral in 1236. Located within Córdoba's UNESCO-listed historic center, it remains both a major religious site and a top cultural attraction. 04:57 PM EDT WATCH: Fire crews battle the blaze at the Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba, Spain #LoÚltimo | La Mezquita-catedral de Córdova, España, se incendió a la altura de la Puerta de San José que data del siglo X y restaurado en 2017. La mezquita, considerada Patrimonio de la Humanidad, inició a construirse en el año 784 y se modificó durante más de dos siglos. pic.twitter.com/Nvtu7w542v — Pleno Informativo (@PlenoInfoSV) August 8, 2025 04:57 PM EDT What Is The Mosque-Cathedral of Córdoba? The Spanish Icon's History The Mosque–Cathedral of Córdoba, officially called the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Assumption, was built as a mosque over 200 years starting 785 CE. The mosque opened in 988 CE, and remained a Muslim site for nearly 300 years before the Christian conquest of Cordoba in 1236 CE. The structure converted to a cathedral, undergoing additional modifications and building until one final, major addition in 1607 CE. Since then, the structure has stood as a sterling example of Moorish architecture and has even been designated a UNESCO World Heritage site. The Mosque-Cathedral has had its share of small controversy starting in the early 2000s when Muslims requested to return and pray on the site. A group of Spanish Muslims in 2006 petitioned Pope Benedict XVI for permission to worship, but ultimately proved unsuccessful. A group of Muslim tourists tried to pray on the site in 2010, leading to a brief clash with security guards, leading to the arrest of two men after they injured two guards. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial Guidelines To read how Newsweek uses AI as a newsroom tool, Click here. Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry and Peter Aitken is a Newsweek Politics Editor based in New York. His focus is domestic U.S. politics, but he has experience covering Foreign Affairs, Business and Technology. Peter joined Newsweek in 2024 from Fox News Digital and had previously freelanced at Business Insider. He has interviewed such notable figures as Benjamin Netanyahu, Gen. David H. Petraeus, British Foreign Ministers James Cleverly and Grant Shapps and a ranking member of the Taliban. He graduated from the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, but is New York born and raised. You can get in touch with Peter by emailing p.aitken@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Peter Aitken FOLLOW Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and ... Read more