Aaron Boone Makes Giancarlo Stanton Decision Amid Yankees' Struggles
MLB New York Yankees Aaron Boone Makes Giancarlo Stanton Decision Amid Yankees' Struggles Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:39 PM EDT CLOSE X By Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New York Yankees were dealt a massive blow a few weeks ago when it was announced that slugger Aaron Judge had a flexor strain in his throwing arm that would keep him off the field for a few weeks. However, this injury doesn't impact his swing, so Judge is able to slot in as the designated hitter for Aaron Boone's Yankees. This move slides Giancarlo Stanton out of the lineup, but Boone was seemingly considering playing Stanton in the outfield while Judge isn't able to throw. NEW YORK, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 5: Giancarlo Stanton #27 of the New York Yankees high fives manager Aaron Boone #17 after defeating the Detroit Tigers 5-1 during a game at Yankee Stadium on September... NEW YORK, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 5: Giancarlo Stanton #27 of the New York Yankees high fives manager Aaron Boone #17 after defeating the Detroit Tigers 5-1 during a game at Yankee Stadium on September 5, 2023 in New York City. More Rich Schultz/Getty Images During Judge's first four games back from the injured list, he's been the DH, and Stanton has sat on the bench. With the Yankees scheduled to face Houston Astros lefty Framber Valdez on Saturday, Boone made the announcement that there was a "good chance" Stanton would be in the outfield for the Yankees when they matched up with Valdez. "Some range is going to be limited, obviously, but I do feel like he'll make the plays that need to be made," Boone said regarding what he expects from Stanton in the outfield. Stanton, 35, hasn't played in the outfield since 2023. The veteran has suffered numerous leg injuries throughout his career that have crippled his mobility. However, with the Yankees needing right-handed bats in their lineup against a southpaw, it seems Stanton will return to the outfield. The expectations on the veteran slugger shouldn't be high. It's unlikely he's going to play very well in the outfield because of his limited range and mobility. However, he was once a solid defensive outfielder, so the balls hit right at him shouldn't be any sort of issue. More MLB: Blue Jays Predicted To Cut Ties With $63 Million Hurler After Shane Bieber Trade Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell FOLLOW Share on Twitter Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi