Yankees Predicted To Make Stunning Aaron Boone Decision Amid 2025 Struggles
MLB New York Yankees Yankees Predicted To Make Stunning Aaron Boone Decision Amid 2025 Struggles Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:34 PM EDT CLOSE X By Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New York Yankees were one of the best teams in baseball during the first half of the season, but they've seemed to fall off a cliff over the last few weeks. The spotlight has been firmly placed on manager Aaron Boone because of the team's struggles. Boone is almost always highlighted as the man to blame, especially when the Yankees lose a close game. Lucas Babits-Feinerman of Yanks Go Yard suggested the Yankees would move on from Boone following this season, considering how poorly they've played as of late. MIAMI, FLORIDA - AUGUST 02: New York Yankees manager Aaron Boone looks on during batting practice prior to a game against the Miami Marlins at loanDepot park on August 02, 2025 in Miami, Florida. MIAMI, FLORIDA - AUGUST 02: New York Yankees manager Aaron Boone looks on during batting practice prior to a game against the Miami Marlins at loanDepot park on August 02, 2025 in Miami, Florida. Rich Storry/Getty Images "The Yankees lost the World Series last year because they played a poor fundamental game, and this year it hasn't gotten any better," Babits-Feinerman wrote. "From base running mistakes to mental errors on defense, the problem is endemic within the organization. They are anti-clutch, and often it seems like Boone not only makes the wrong decision, but the worst possible decision for the situation. "The Yanks lead the AL in run differential (runs scored - runs allowed) but are on the verge of missing the playoffs. They are under .500 in one-run games and extra-inning games. The impact of a manager is hard to quantify, but I think they should bring the best out of their players when it matters most, and Boone's Yankees beat themselves far too often." Boone's job has been in question for years now, it seems, yet the veteran manager remains at the helm for the Yankees. However, if the Yankees miss the postseason, there's a chance he's finally fired. For a team like the Bronx Bombers with a payroll like they have, it's inexcusable to miss the postseason, especially when Aaron Judge is still producing at the rate that he is. If the Yankees hold onto a postseason spot, like it seems they will, Boone will almost certainly be back with the team next year. There aren't any better options on the market to replace him. More MLB: Blue Jays Predicted To Cut Ties With $63 Million Hurler After Shane Bieber Trade Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell FOLLOW Share on Twitter Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi