Cowboys Make Roster Move After Critical Injury Update
NFL Dallas Cowboys Cowboys Make Roster Move After Critical Injury Update Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:33 PM EDT CLOSE X By Justin Grasso Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ On Friday, the Dallas Cowboys announced a significant roster move, confirming that one of their offensive lineman's season is over. According to a team press release, Rob Jones has been added to the season-ending injured reserve list. Jones was recently added in free agency. He was working his way to becoming a full-time starter for the Cowboys at the guard position. Unfortunately, he's going to spend the year in recovery. When the Cowboys opened up training camp in late July, Jones went down on the first day of padded practice. It was announced that Jones had suffered a broken bone in his neck. At the time of the diagnosis, Jones was placed on a 2-3 month rehab plan. Malik Davis #34 of the Dallas Cowboys warms up prior to a preseason game against the Las Vegas Raiders at Allegiant Stadium on August 17, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Malik Davis #34 of the Dallas Cowboys warms up prior to a preseason game against the Las Vegas Raiders at Allegiant Stadium on August 17, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Brandon Sloter/Getty Images At first, it seemed that a return to action this season was possible for Jones. But after thinking it over, the Cowboys decided to call it a season for the veteran lineman. Jones, a 26-year-old veteran, started his college run at Highland Community College in Kansas. By 2019, he was attending Middle Tennessee. After a two-year stint there, Jones entered the 2021 NFL Draft. He went undrafted at the time, and started his career with the Miami Dolphins. Two seasons ago, Jones was on the Dolphins' short-term IR due to an injury. Last year, he hit the free agency market and signed with the Dolphins once again for another run. He started for the Dolphins all last year. This season, Jones was set to play for the Cowboys on a one-year deal. He'll be on pace to his the free agency market once again next spring. With the recently opened roster spot, the Cowboys have signed the running back, Malik Davis. In 2017, Davis fired up a run at Florida. He spent five years with the Gators in the NCAA, making 46 appearances. By the end of his college career, Davis had 284 carries for 1,470 yards and eight touchdowns. He also had 70 catches for 726 yards and two touchdowns. Davis went undrafted in 2022. He signed with the Cowboys as a free agent. Davis has made 13 appearances with the Cowboys since 2022. He picked up 38 carries and six catches in 12 games during the 2022 NFL season. He appeared in just one game the following year. In 13 games, Davis has 161 yards on the ground and 63 yards through the air, along with one touchdown. Back in April, Davis was waived by the Cowboys after he landed a reserve deal. Davis is back in the mix as the Cowboys lose Jones for the year. For more Dallas Cowboys and NFL news, head over to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Justin Grasso FOLLOW The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi