FanDuel Promo Code Bet $5, Win $150 Bonus For MLB, NFL Preseason Week 1
Betting FanDuel NFL MLB FanDuel Promo Code: Bet $5, Win $150 Bonus For MLB, NFL Preseason Week 1 Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:30 PM EDT With the FanDuel promo code, new users can turn a $5 first bet into a $150 bonus for MLB and NFL preseason Week 1 games. With the FanDuel promo code, new users can turn a $5 first bet into a $150 bonus for MLB and NFL preseason Week 1 games. Winslow Townson/Getty Images By Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett Sports Betting Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW Affiliate Links Independently reported, but earns (or may earn) a commission from products/services mentioned. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Claim the latest FanDuel promo code offer to get a $150 betting bonus for Friday's NFL preseason and MLB games. Just sign up through one of our links and bet $5 on any market and get your bonuses if your initial wager settles as a win. The first full weekend of NFL preseason games started last night, and it continues with Browns-Panthers, Lions-Falcons and Commanders-Patriots tonight. You can bet $5 on any of these games and get your bonus bets if your wager settles as a win. You can also use today's MLB and WNBA games as betting opportunities for this promo. Every MLB team is back in action tonight after an abbreviated Thursday slate, and matchups like Astros-Yankees, Phillies-Rangers, Mets-Brewers, Red Sox-Padres and Blue Jays-Dodgers bring plenty of intrigue. The WNBA delivers three games with Liberty-Wings, Mystics-Lynx and Storm-Aces. When you get up and running with the FanDuel promo code, you will maximize your chances of winning the $150 in bonus bets. You can also take advantage of in-app offers for Friday's games and more events this weekend. FanDuel Promo Code for NFL Preseason FanDuel Promo Code No Code Required New User Offer Risk $5, Receive $150 in Bonus Bets With a Win In-App Promos 25% Parlay Profit Boost on Any Sport, Daily Boosts, etc. Terms and Conditions New Customers – 21+ in Eligible States Bonus Last Verified On Aug. 8, 2025 Information Confirmed By Newsweek The important caveat to this offer is that you must win your initial $5 bet to get the $150 in bonus bets. Just make sure that you bet on a market that you believe is likely to settle as a win. It would be wise to look at a wide variety of betting markets available across the FanDuel Sportsbook app. You could bet on one of the NFL preseason games. However, it is hard to predict the outcome of those. With Shedeur Sanders starting for the Browns and making his professional debut, there are plenty of prop markets related to how he will perform. Maybe you could bet on his first pass to be a completion, or for him to have one or more passing touchdowns. If you win the $150 in bonus bets, you will have one week to put them to use before they expire from your account. Read more NFL preseason betting odds, picks for August 8: CLE-CAR, DET-ATL, WAS-NE Claim FanDuel Promo Code Offer Click here or on any of the other links on this page to sign up and claim this offer from FanDuel Sportsbook. You will need to enter basic personal information (name, date of birth, mailing address, email address, phone number, etc.) to confirm your identity and create your account. Next, make an initial deposit with a secure payment method, like a credit card. This will cover your initial $5 bet. Once you place your initial $5 bet, wait for it to settle to see if you win the $150 in bonus bets. If your bet wins and you secure the $150 in bonus bets, you will have seven days to use them before they expire. Odds, Preview For Friday NFL Preseason Games The bulk of the Week 1 preseason games will take place on Saturday, but Friday's matchups bring some intrigue. Sanders' Browns debut will garner a lot of attention, no matter how it goes. We likely will not see much, if any starters in tonight's matchups, but this will be the first time we see many top 2025 draft picks take the field. Let's look at the odds below for tonight's games at FanDuel Sportsbook: Browns: +6.5 (-115) / +240 / O32.5 (-105) Panthers: -6.5 (-105) / -290 / U32.5 (-115) Lions: -3.5 (-115) / -200 / O32.5 (-120) Falcons: +3.5 (-105) / +170 / U32.5 (+100) Commanders: +6.5 (-110) / +220 / O34.5 (-110) Patriots: -6.5 (-110) / -270 / U34.5 (-110) Newsweek may earn an affiliate commission if you sign up through the links in this article. See the sportsbook operator's terms and conditions for important details. Sports betting operators have no influence over newsroom coverage. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett FOLLOW Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi