Donald Trump Removes IRS Chief, Temporarily Replaces Him With Scott Bessent
Politics Donald Trump Trump administration IRS Donald Trump Removes IRS Chief, Temporarily Replaces Him With Scott Bessent Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:02 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 5:55 PM EDT CLOSE X By Sonam Sheth is an Evening Politics Editor at Newsweek who is based in New York. She joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked at Business Insider and CNBC. Sonam has extensive experience covering national security, foreign policy, elections, and stories at the intersection of law and politics. Her work has been cited in The Washington Post, The Atlantic, Vanity Fair, and others. She has also frequently appeared on national television and radio, including MSNBC, NBC News, BBC World News, BBC News radio, and more. You can get in touch with Sonam at s.sheth@newsweek.com. Languages: English, Hindi, and French. Writers Page Sonam Sheth Evening Politics Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ President Donald Trump has removed Billy Long, the head of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and temporarily replaced him with Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, The Associated Press and New York Times reported on Friday. Long announced on social media after the news broke that he will take on a new role as the U.S. ambassador to Iceland. Why It Matters The IRS has been roiled by uncertainty since Trump returned to office in January. In addition to a revolving door of agency heads since the president's inauguration—Long was the fifth person to helm the tax administration agency in Trump's second term—the IRS has also been under tremendous strain after thousands of its employees were either fired or resigned. The reduction in force was part of a broader Trump administration initiative, spearheaded by the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), to dramatically reduce the federal workforce. The push by Trump and Elon Musk drew widespread condemnation over the administration's slash-and-burn approach to shrinking the bureaucracy. Mass layoffs and removals at the IRS have also raised concerns about its ability to process tax returns and refunds. Then-Representative Billy Long speaks during the House Republican freshmen news conference marking the first day that "all non-exempt employers are required to provide health care coverage that includes abortion-inducing drugs or else pay a steep... Then-Representative Billy Long speaks during the House Republican freshmen news conference marking the first day that "all non-exempt employers are required to provide health care coverage that includes abortion-inducing drugs or else pay a steep tax" on August 1, 2012. More CQ Roll Call via AP Images What To Know Long's removal comes less than two months after he was confirmed to lead the federal agency. Bessent will take over as the head of the IRS on an acting basis, a White House official told AP. The Republican-led Senate confirmed Long 53-44 despite Democratic senators' concerns about Long's lack of experience in tax administration and his past work for a firm that pitched a fraudulent pandemic-era tax break. Before being confirmed as IRS commissioner, Long served as a Republican in Congress, where he supported legislation to abolish the tax agency, a move championed by many others in the GOP. Five people have served as IRS commissioner, either on a permanent or acting basis, since Trump took office: Douglas O'Donnell, Melanie Krause, Gary Shapley, Michael Faulkender and Long. O'Donnell took over leading the agency on January 21, after his predecessor, Danny Werfel, announced he would leave before Trump was inaugurated. Krause accepted a deferred resignation offer from the IRS after the agency reached a deal with the Department of Homeland Security to share immigrants' tax data. Shapley was replaced after his appointment set off a fight between Musk and Bessent. Long will be the the shortest-tenured IRS commissioner confirmed by the Senate since the position was created in 1862, according to AP. What People Are Saying Billy Long, on X on Friday: "It is a honor to serve my friend President Trump and I am excited to take on my new role as the ambassador to Iceland. I am thrilled to answer his call to service and deeply committed to advancing his bold agenda. Exciting times ahead!" What Happens Next Bessent will serve as acting IRS commissioner while the administration weighs a permanent replacement. The Associated Press contributed reporting to this article. Update 8/8/25, 5:41 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional information and context. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Sonam Sheth is an Evening Politics Editor at Newsweek who is based in New York. She joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked at Business Insider and CNBC. Sonam has extensive experience covering national security, foreign policy, elections, and stories at the intersection of law and politics. Her work has been cited in The Washington Post, The Atlantic, Vanity Fair, and others. She has also frequently appeared on national television and radio, including MSNBC, NBC News, BBC World News, BBC News radio, and more. You can get in touch with Sonam at s.sheth@newsweek.com. Languages: English, Hindi, and French. Writers Page Sonam Sheth FOLLOW Sonam Sheth is an Evening Politics Editor at Newsweek who is based in New York. She joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked at Business Insider and CNBC. Sonam has extensive experience covering national security, foreign policy, elections, and stories at the intersection of law and politics. Her work has been cited in The Washington Post, The Atlantic, Vanity Fair, and others. She has also frequently appeared on national television and radio, including MSNBC, NBC News, BBC World News, BBC News radio, and more. You can get in touch with Sonam at s.sheth@newsweek.com. Languages: English, Hindi, and French. Sonam Sheth is an Evening Politics Editor at Newsweek who is based in New York. She joined Newsweek in 2024 ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi