How to Watch NCTS Race at Watkins Glen Live Stream NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series, TV Channel
Racing NASCAR How to Watch NCTS Race at Watkins Glen: Live Stream NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series, TV Channel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 4:00 PM EDT CLOSE X By Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series is in Watkins Glen this weekend for some road-course racing action. The top drivers will battle it out for the victory, with points leader Corey Heim looking to build on an already-impressive 143-point lead over Chandler Smith. Corey Heim, driver of the #11 Mobil 1 Toyota, drives during practice for the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series Mission 176 at The Glen at Watkins Glen International on August 08, 2025 in Watkins Glen, New... Corey Heim, driver of the #11 Mobil 1 Toyota, drives during practice for the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series Mission 176 at The Glen at Watkins Glen International on August 08, 2025 in Watkins Glen, New York. More Photo by Sean Gardner/Getty Images How to Watch NCTS Race at Watkins Glen Date: Friday, Aug. 8, 2025 Time: 5:00 PM EDT Channel: FOX Sports 1 Stream: Fubo (Watch now!) This week's race features two major driver changes. Stewart Friesen suffered a major injury while racing in another series and is out of the No. 52 truck, with Cup Series driver Christopher Bell set to take the truck over this weekend. But Bell won't be in that truck long, as Kaden Honeycutt is set to take it over following this weekend. Honeycutt had been racing for Niece Motorsports and sits sixth in points, but he was released after informing the team he had signed with a different team and manufacturer for next season. He is in the Young's Motorsports No. 02 this weekend, while Connor Zilisch will race his old No. 45 truck. This is the second road-course race of the season for the Truck Series. Back in June, Heim dominated at Lime Rock, leading 99 of the 100 laps. Ty Majeski, Giovanni Ruggiero, Ben Rhodes, and Cam Waters rounded out the top five. This is a crowded field. In addition to Zilisch and Bell, full-time Cup Series or Xfinity Series drivers in the field include William Sawalich, Kyle Busch, Sammy Smith, Ross Chastain, and Chris Buescher. You can live stream all the best racing action from around the world on Fubo, from stock car leagues like NASCAR and ARCA to open-wheel leagues like Formula 1 and IndyCar. Catch all the high-octane excitement by subscribing to Fubo now. Live stream the NCTS Race at Watkins Glen on Fubo: Start watching now! Regional restrictions may apply. If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the links on our site, we may receive compensation. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Writers Page Kilty Cleary FOLLOW Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands like Sporting News and Sports Illustrated, building key partnerships and creating engaging content. Follow him on X and IG @theonlykilty Kilty Cleary is a Los Angeles-based media and marketing pro with 18+ years of experience. He's worked with top brands ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi