WWE Superstar Debunks Strange Rumor
wrestling WWE Professional Wrestling WWE Superstar Debunks Strange Rumor Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:53 PM EDT CLOSE X By Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He has in-depth knowledge of pro wrestling and has covered the industry extensively. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2025 from WrestlingNews.co and had previously worked at GiveMe Sport. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.ravens@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @andrew_ravens. Writers Page Andrew Ravens‎ Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ WWE Raw superstar Ivy Nile has a new look, and she is making it clear that the change was entirely her own decision. In a new interview, she addressed the viral reaction to her recent hairstyle change and shut down any rumors that she was told to do it by the company. Speaking with Chris Van Vliet on his Insight podcast, the powerhouse of the American Made faction explained the simple reason behind her dramatic transformation. A Viral Hair Debut For years, Ivy Nile has been known for her signature tight boxer braids, a look that perfectly matched her intense, athletic persona. She recently debuted a new style, letting her hair down in long, wavy blonde locks, a change that immediately got the wrestling world talking. "Ever since I debuted in wrestling, it's been just braids," Nile explained. "And you know, I just—I don't know. It's just like—I just thought of it one day and I did it." She was firm in stating that the decision was hers alone. "No one told me to do braids, by the way," she said. "The braids were my idea, and this was my idea." The change was an immediate hit with fans, a fact Nile proudly noted: "And my hair debut went viral, by the way." SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA - JANUARY 17: Nia Jax and Bianca Belair in action during Smackdown at Pechanga Arena on January 17, 2025 in San Diego, California. SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA - JANUARY 17: Nia Jax and Bianca Belair in action during Smackdown at Pechanga Arena on January 17, 2025 in San Diego, California. WWE/Getty Images More news: WWE Superstar Announces Retirement Match The Pitbull of Diamond Mine Ivy Nile first rose to prominence in NXT as the sole female member of the Diamond Mine faction. Known as the "Pitbull" of the group, her character was built on her incredible physique, legitimate athletic background, and no-nonsense, submission-based in-ring style. Her braided hair was a key part of that tough, athletic presentation, making her recent style change all the more dramatic. The change in appearance often signals a change in character or a renewed push for a superstar. This has led to widespread fan speculation that Nile could be on the verge of a major storyline. Stepping Up in American Made Nile is currently a member of the American Made faction on Monday Night Raw, alongside The Creed Brothers. The group was led by Chad Gable until he was sidelined with a major rotator cuff injury in June. In Gable's absence, Nile has been forced to step up and has been featured more prominently in backstage segments as the new public face of the group. While she has mostly been in a non-wrestling role on Raw, she did recently compete in the battle royal at the Evolution premium live event. With a bold new look and a more prominent role, the future looks bright for "The Pitbull." More WWE News: Released WWE Superstar Retires From Pro Wrestling Released WWE Star Breaks Silence On Departure Released WWE Star Wants To Join AEW For more on WWE, head to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He has in-depth knowledge of pro wrestling and has covered the industry extensively. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2025 from WrestlingNews.co and had previously worked at GiveMe Sport. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.ravens@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @andrew_ravens. Writers Page Andrew Ravens‎ FOLLOW Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He has in-depth knowledge of pro wrestling and has covered the industry extensively. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2025 from WrestlingNews.co and had previously worked at GiveMe Sport. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.ravens@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @andrew_ravens. Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi