Tropical Storm Henriette Live Tracker Maps as Storm Passes Hawaii
U.S. Weather Hurricane Tropical Storm Maps Forecast Storm Tropical Storm Henriette Live Tracker Maps as Storm Passes Hawaii Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:49 PM EDT CLOSE X By Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Anna Skinner Senior Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Tropical Storm Henriette is set to pass northeast of Hawaii on Sunday and could strengthen into a hurricane Monday, forecasters say. Why It Matters Henriette is the eighth named storm of the Pacific hurricane season. Its formation was shortly followed by Tropical Storm Ivo, which started to develop much closer to land southwest of Mexico's coast. Forecasts show Henriette passing by Hawaii beginning early Sunday, although the storm is not expected to make landfall. National Weather Service (NWS) meteorologist Joseph Clark, who works at the Honolulu office, told Newsweek that Hawaii is not expecting impacts from the storm. A map from the National Hurricane Center shows Tropical Storm Henriette passing northeast of Hawaii this weekend. A map from the National Hurricane Center shows Tropical Storm Henriette passing northeast of Hawaii this weekend. National Hurricane Center What To Know As of the most recent update from the National Hurricane Center (NHC), Henriette's maximum sustained wind speeds were documented at 40 mph, with higher gusts. Animated weather footage from windy.com shows gusts measuring around 47 mph. The storm is moving westward around 17 mph and will likely turn west-northwest later on Friday and further northwest over the weekend, "keeping the center of Henriette well to the north of the Hawaiian Islands." The storm is expected to produce several inches of rainfall over the next three days, according to the windy.com maps, but the rain will remain offshore. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has forecast a below- normal hurricane season for the Eastern Pacific, with 12 to 18 named storms. Of those, five to 10 will likely become hurricanes, and two to five could develop into major ones. Matthew Rosencrans, lead for NOAA's seasonal hurricane outlook, told Newsweek that the agency will not issue a revised update for the Eastern Pacific season, as storms usually peak from July to September. Rosencrans added that the "early ramp-up" to the season was "a little surprising," but that the Eastern Pacific is performing below average in terms of total activity. Although there have been several storms, Rosencrans said most have been weak and short-lived. Aside from Henriette, south-facing Hawaii beaches are facing high surf advisories on Friday. Beachgoers were cautioned of the surf, which could reach up to 10 feet on Friday and 14 feet on Saturday. What People Are Saying NHC, in a forecast update for Henriette: "Henriette could degenerate to a remnant low later today. Restrengthening as a tropical storm is expected over the weekend, and Henriette could become a hurricane by Monday." What Happens Next As of the most recent forecast update, there are no hazards affecting land. The NHC will continue monitoring the storm. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Anna Skinner FOLLOW Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi