Bears Urged to Make Surprising Trade During Preseason
NFL Chicago Bears Bears Urged to Make Surprising Trade During Preseason Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:48 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 3:52 PM EDT CLOSE X By Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Chicago Bears are hoping to make a big step forward in the NFC during the upcoming 2025 NFL season. After a very aggressive offseason, the roster is vastly improved from where it was at this time last year. Speaking of last season, the Bears were hoping to make this step in 2024. Unfortunately, they finished with a 5-12 record and in last place in the NFC North division. That disappointment led general manager Ryan Poles to make quite a few roster moves. He went out and traded for offensive linemen Joe Thuney and Jonah Jackson and then signed names like Drew Dalman, Dayo Odeyingbo, and Grady Jarrett. Head coach Ben Johnson of the Chicago Bears speaks to the media ahead of training camp practice at Halas Hall on July 24, 2025 in Lake Forest, Illinois. Head coach Ben Johnson of the Chicago Bears speaks to the media ahead of training camp practice at Halas Hall on July 24, 2025 in Lake Forest, Illinois. Photo by Michael Reaves/Getty Images On the outside looking in, there are major reasons for optimism surrounding the franchise. However, putting a better product and winning on the field is a much more difficult thing to do than simply making roster moves. Read more: Browns' 2-Word Shedeur Sanders Message Has Fans Buzzing Keeping that in mind, the Bears have been urged to make a surprising roster move. Bleacher Report's Kristopher Knox recently put together a list of one player that each team in the NFL should look to trade. When it came to Chicago, he suggested that the team consider moving on from tight end Cole Kmet. "The Bears would be wise to see what they can get for Kmet now," Knox wrote. "Moving him should bring an enticing return while saving a cool $10 million in cap space." Kmet could be available for the right price. The Bears made the move to select former Michigan standout tight end Colston Loveland in the first round of the 2025 NFL Draft. Read more: Broncos Receive Shocking Prediction That Chiefs Fans Won't Like If Chicago is fully sold on Loveland being its top tight end for years to come, trading Kmet for draft capital and saving some cap space would make perfect sense. Last season with the Bears, Kmet played in 17 games. He racked up 47 receptions for 474 yards and four touchdowns. Back in 2023, he caught 73 passes for 719 yards and six touchdowns. At just 26 years old, Kmet could be a nice long-term addition at tight end for any team around the league that could use the help. Should he be made available, it seems likely that they would be a fairly decent-sized market that opens up for him. For more on the Chicago Bears and general NFL news, head over to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Writers Page Evan Massey FOLLOW Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and college sports. He has been featured on many publications, including Athlon Sports, ESPN, Yahoo! Sports, Forbes, Bleacher Report, Sporting News, and many others. In his free time, Evan enjoys spending time with his wife and son. Evan Massey is a sports reporter and analyst located in Indianapolis, Indiana who covers the NFL, NBA, MLB, WNBA, and ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi