Astronaut Jim Lovell Dead At 97 Tributes Pour In For Apollo 13 Commander
News Breaking News Astronauts Dead Space Space exploration Apollo 13 Commander Jim Lovell Dead at 97: Family Pays Tribute to 'Hero' Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:33 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 4:58 PM EDT CLOSE X By Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Writers Page Anna Commander , Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry and Joshua Rhett Miller is a Newsweek chief investigative reporter based in New York. His areas of focus include U.S. politics, immigration and society, as well as crime, education and technology. In 2024, Joshua joined Newsweek following roles at the New York Post, FoxNews.com and Fox News Channel, where he worked as an associate producer for "Shepard Smith Reporting." He also has extensive experience covering national and international breaking news, including terror attacks, COVID-related topics and live reports from the United States-Mexico border. The graduate of Pennsylvania State University can be reached at j.miller@newsweek.com. Writers Page Joshua Rhett Miller Deputy News Editor Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Tributes began pouring in for famed Apollo 13 commander Jim Lovell after his death at 97 years old. Lovell died on Thursday in Lake Forest, Illinois, NASA announced in a news release. He is survived by his four children. "NASA sends its condolences to the family of Capt. Jim Lovell, whose life and work inspired millions of people across the decades," acting NASA Administrator Sean Duffy said in a statement. Newsweek has reached out to NASA via email Friday for additional comment. Captain Jim Lovell of the U.S. Navy, pilot of the Gemini 7 space mission, is pictured in December 1965. (Photo by Keystone/Hulton Archive/Getty Images) Captain Jim Lovell of the U.S. Navy, pilot of the Gemini 7 space mission, is pictured in December 1965. (Photo by Keystone/Hulton Archive/Getty Images) Who Was Jim Lovell? Lovell led the Apollo 13 crew during a 1970 in‑flight emergency that forced NASA to abort a planned lunar landing and instead execute a high‑stakes return to Earth. His leadership during that crisis shaped public memory of the Apollo era and had a lasting influence on U.S. spaceflight culture. The Apollo 13 crew did not land on the moon after an oxygen tank in the service module exploded roughly 56 hours into the mission, depriving the spacecraft of electrical power and life‑support consumables. Flight controllers and the crew used the lunar module as a lifeboat to return safely to Earth. Lovell was the first man to travel to the moon twice. He never did walk on the moon. Three of the crew members of Apollo 13, left to right, Fred Haise, Jim Lovell and Ken Mattingly. Three of the crew members of Apollo 13, left to right, Fred Haise, Jim Lovell and Ken Mattingly. Tributes Pour in for the Late Astronaut Lovell's family in a statement posted by NASA on X on Friday: "We are saddened to announce the passing of our beloved father, USN Captain James A. 'Jim' Lovell, a Navy pilot and officer, astronaut, leader, and space explorer. He was 97. We are enormously proud of his amazing life and career accomplishments, highlighted by his legendary leadership in pioneering human space flight. But, to all of us, he was Dad, Granddad, and the Leader of our family. Most importantly, he was our Hero. We will miss his unshakeable optimism, his sense of humor, and the way he made each of us feel we could do the impossible. He was truly one of a kind." Former astronaut Buzz Aldrin, on X Friday: "Grieving the loss of one of my best friends, Jim Lovell. His extraordinary legacy is cemented by many space missions: Gemini VII, Gemini XII, Apollo 8 and Apollo 13. Our mutual respect had no limits. The Gemini XII mission we flew together paved the way for the Apollo missions. Heartfelt condolences to Jim's family. Farewell Jim. You will be missed, my friend. Godspeed!" Senator Mark Kelly of Arizona, a former astronaut, posted to X on Friday: "When Jim Lovell heard [President John F.] Kennedy's goal to reach the Moon, he thought it was impossible — then he went there twice. He said to be successful, you need to be a person who makes things happen. Jim, you made things happen for our country and humanity. Fair Winds and Following Seas." Actor Andrew McCarthy wrote on X Friday: "Jim Lovell was an absolute legend. Made famous by the film Apollo 13 (he was Tom Hank's character) but also the command module pilot for Apollo 8, imo the most gutsy mission from the history of crewed spaceflight. One of 24 people to ever see Earth like this. Rest well, Jim." Steve Forbes, editor-in-chief of Forbes Media, wrote on X Friday: "So sad to hear. An American hero!" Former NASA Astronaut Mike Massimino on X on Friday: "I am so sad to hear about the passing of my hero Jim Lovell. He was a great role model not only as an astronaut, but also as a person who exemplified a life well lived - both professionally and personally. He will be missed by many, Godspeed my friend." The crew of the Apollo 13 lunar landing mission are shown in their spacesuits on their way to the launchpad at Kennedy Space Center in Cape Kennedy, Florida, on April 11, 1970. Commander Jim Lovell is waving, followed by pilots John L. Swigert Jr. and Fred W. Haise Jr. An explosion on board forced Apollo 13 to circle the moon without landing. (AP Photo/NASA) AP In this July 13, 2009, file photo, astronauts Buzz Aldrin, left, and Jim Lovell arrive for an event sponsored by Louis Vuitton celebrating the 40th anniversary of the lunar landing at the Museum of Natural History. (AP Photo/Jason DeCrow, File) AP Who Was Jim Lovell's Wife? Lovell married Marilyn Gerlach in 1952, according to The New York Times. Marilyn was born in Milwaukee on July 11, 1930, and died in August 2023 at the age of 93. Marilyn and Jim went to high school together and she later enrolled at George Washington University in Washington, D.C., to be closer to him while he was in the United States Naval Academy in Maryland, the Times reports. The family later settled in Houston. Update 8/8/25, 10:32 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional information. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Writers Page Anna Commander , Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry and Joshua Rhett Miller is a Newsweek chief investigative reporter based in New York. His areas of focus include U.S. politics, immigration and society, as well as crime, education and technology. In 2024, Joshua joined Newsweek following roles at the New York Post, FoxNews.com and Fox News Channel, where he worked as an associate producer for "Shepard Smith Reporting." He also has extensive experience covering national and international breaking news, including terror attacks, COVID-related topics and live reports from the United States-Mexico border. The graduate of Pennsylvania State University can be reached at j.miller@newsweek.com. Writers Page Joshua Rhett Miller FOLLOW Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com. Languages: English Intermediate Spanish Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi