Caesars Sportsbook Promo Code NEWSWK2DYW Double MLB, NFL Winnings Friday
Betting Caesars NFL MLB Caesars Sportsbook Promo Code NEWSWK2DYW: Double MLB, NFL Winnings Friday Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:30 PM EDT Use the Caesars Sportsbook promo code NEWSWK2DYW for new users and double winnings on MLB and NFL preseason games this weekend, including Lions-Falcons. Use the Caesars Sportsbook promo code NEWSWK2DYW for new users and double winnings on MLB and NFL preseason games this weekend, including Lions-Falcons. Nick Cammett/Getty Images By Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett Sports Betting Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW Affiliate Links Independently reported, but earns (or may earn) a commission from products/services mentioned. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ When you set up a new account with the Caesars Sportsbook promo code NEWSWK2DYW, you will have the opportunity to instantly secure 10 100 percent profit boost tokens for MLB and NFL preseason Week 1 games to use for any game. Just click here to sign up for a new account and bet $1 on any market to secure your reward. These profit boost tokens can be used to double your wins on bets up to $25. They can be used to bet on any market, and they will be valid in your account for 14 days before they expire. Friday is a perfect opportunity for new users to lock in their profit boost tokens. The NFL preseason continues with three games alongside a full MLB slate and three WNBA games. After the first full slate of preseason games started last night, we have Lions-Falcons, Browns-Panthers and Commanders-Patriots as betting options this evening. The MLB slate delivers plenty of big matchups, headlined by Astros-Yankees and Blue Jays-Dodgers. The WNBA brings three games with Liberty-Wings, Mystics-Lynx and Storm-Aces. Sign up and bet on Friday's action to unlock your 10 100 percent profit boost tokens in time for a busy sports weekend. Caesars Sportsbook Promo Code NEWSWK2DYW For NFL Preseason, MLB, More Caesars Sportsbook Promo Code SBD2DYW New User Offer Bet $1, Get (10) 100% Profit Boost Tokens (max, $25 bets) In-App Promos NFL Parlay Sweepstakes, Fastball Fortune, Caesars Rewards, etc. Terms and Conditions New Customers – 21+ in Eligible States Bonus Last Verified On August 8, 2025 Information Confirmed By Newsweek All it takes to activate this offer from Caesars Sportsbook is a $1 bet on any market. The outcome of that $1 bet does not matter, and you will receive your reward before your initial wager even settles. If you plan to bet on an NFL preseason game, you could simply bet on the winner and instantly unlock your tokens. Or you could look at additional markets, like team props. The same goes for any MLB or WNBA game. Whether you want to bet on the moneyline, over/under, spread or even a prop market, you will be able to activate your welcome offer with your first wager. Just make sure to use your tokens within 14 days before they expire. Popular Quick Pick Markets For NFL Preseason Games When you get set up with Caesars Sportsbook, you will be able to take advantage of popular betting markets within the app. For Friday's NFL preseason game, click on a specific matchup to view opportunities like the examples listed below: Lions moneyline, over 32.5 total points (+179) Falcons +3.5, over 32.5 total points (+270) Browns +6, over 32.5 total points (+325) Browns +6, Panthers win (+240) Commanders +6.5, Patriots win, (+240) Patriots win, over 34.5 total points (+150) Read more NFL preseason betting odds, picks for August 8: CLE-CAR, DET-ATL, WAS-NE Sign Up With Caesars Sportsbook Promo Code NEWSWK2DYW Click here or on any of our other links to go to the registration page. Make sure to enter the promo code NEWSWK2DYW to secure your welcome offer. Provide basic personal information, like your name, date of birth, mailing address and more to create your account. From there, use a credit card or any other secure payment method to make an initial deposit. This will cover your $1 bet to activate your 10 100 percent profit boost tokens. Use your tokens for wagers up to $25 on any market. They will be eligible in your account for two weeks before they expire. Newsweek may earn an affiliate commission if you sign up through the links in this article. See the sportsbook operator's terms and conditions for important details. Sports betting operators have no influence over newsroom coverage. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett FOLLOW Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi