Former Angels Third Baseman Passes Away
MLB Los Angeles Angels Baseball Former Angels Third Baseman Passes Away Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:27 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 3:30 PM EDT CLOSE X By J.P. Hoornstra writes and edits Major League Baseball content. A veteran of 20 years of sports coverage for daily newspapers in California, J.P. covered MLB, the Los Angeles Dodgers, and the Los Angeles Angels (occasionally of Anaheim) from 2012-23 for the Southern California News Group. His first book, The 50 Greatest Dodgers Games of All-Time, published in 2015. In 2016, he won an Associated Press Sports Editors award for breaking news coverage. He once recorded a keyboard solo on the same album as two of the original Doors. Writers Page Jon Paul Hoornstra Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Felix Torres, a pioneering Puerto Rican baseball player who spent three seasons with the Los Angeles Angels, died Friday. He was 93. The mayor's office of his hometown of Santa Isabel confirmed the news of Torres' death to Newsweek Sports. More news: Legendary MLB Coach, Scout Who Starred in Japan Passes Away Torres was 30 years old when he debuted as the Angels' Opening Day third baseman in 1962. Over the next three seasons, he would hit .254 with 27 home runs and 153 RBIs in 365 games. A detailed view of an Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim hat and a catching glove is seen during the sixth inning of the MLB game between the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and the Los... A detailed view of an Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim hat and a catching glove is seen during the sixth inning of the MLB game between the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and the Los Angeles Dodgers at Dodger Stadium on July 15, 2018 in Los Angeles. More Victor Decolongon/Getty Images The Angels selected Torres in the December 1961 Rule 5 draft after he slashed .278/.321/.474 for the Triple-A Buffalo Bisons, a Philadelphia Phillies Triple-A affiliate. More news: Yankees World Series Champion, St. Louis' Last AL All-Star, Dies at 97 By then, Torres was already a hometown hero in Santa Isabel, and a veteran of more than 10 seasons of baseball in Puerto Rico and the affiliated minor leagues. In 1953 he participated in the World Amateur Baseball Championship in Venezuela, helping Puerto Rico to a sixth-place finish. In 1960 he hit three home runs in the annual Caribbean Series. Torres became the first native of Santa Isabel and the 21st Puerto Rican to appear in a major league game when he was chosen the Angels' Opening Day third baseman by manager Bill Rigney in 1962. More news: Former American League All-Star Pitcher Passes Away The language barrier was a significant one for Torres as a rookie. Not until Puerto Rican-born pitcher Julio Navarro made his debut in September did the Angels have a fluent bilingual speaker in the clubhouse. "Felix was lost here," Angels infielder Leon Wagner told Jackie Robinson in the 1964 book Baseball Has Done It. "He had a wife and couldn't get an apartment and only had two words of English: 'money' and 'beefsteak' . . . I went out and got the apartment for him." More news: MLB News: Former Mets GM Slams Angels For Deadline Trade Angels trainer Freddie Federico told author Samuel Octavio Regalado in the book Viva Baseball! that, when Torres complained of a sore arm, "I worked on his left arm for a couple of days before I discovered he was right-handed." Torres played no fewer than 100 games in his three seasons with the Angels. But by Year 3, he was beginning to cede more playing time, and he believed his salary reflected a similar sentiment from the Angels' front office. Torres told the Associated Press in March 1965 that he made $12,500 in each of his first three seasons and was willing to hold out for $15,000. More news: MLB Trade Deadline: Angels Make Surprising Deal for High Leverage Relievers The holdout did not work. Torres didn't log an at-bat until the Puerto Rican Winter League season began. His career in MLB was over. Torres would play two more seasons in the affiliated minor leagues, with the Seattle Angels in 1966-67, but was not promoted. After retiring as a player, Torres returned home to the southern coast of Puerto Rico. He was inducted into the Ponce Sports Immortals Gallery in 1985. In 2012, he was honored with the Francisco "Pancho" Coimbre Atiles Award, which recognizes outstanding professional baseball players in Puerto Rico. For more MLB news, visit Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer J.P. Hoornstra writes and edits Major League Baseball content. A veteran of 20 years of sports coverage for daily newspapers in California, J.P. covered MLB, the Los Angeles Dodgers, and the Los Angeles Angels (occasionally of Anaheim) from 2012-23 for the Southern California News Group. His first book, The 50 Greatest Dodgers Games of All-Time, published in 2015. In 2016, he won an Associated Press Sports Editors award for breaking news coverage. He once recorded a keyboard solo on the same album as two of the original Doors. Writers Page Jon Paul Hoornstra FOLLOW Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on LinkedIn J.P. Hoornstra writes and edits Major League Baseball content. A veteran of 20 years of sports coverage for daily newspapers in California, J.P. covered MLB, the Los Angeles Dodgers, and the Los Angeles Angels (occasionally of Anaheim) from 2012-23 for the Southern California News Group. His first book, The 50 Greatest Dodgers Games of All-Time, published in 2015. In 2016, he won an Associated Press Sports Editors award for breaking news coverage. He once recorded a keyboard solo on the same album as two of the original Doors. J.P. Hoornstra writes and edits Major League Baseball content. A veteran of 20 years of sports coverage for daily newspapers ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi