Patriots Rookie Already Emerging As Potential 1,000-Yard Breakout Star
NFL New England Patriots Patriots Rookie Already Emerging As Potential 1,000-Yard Breakout Star Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:22 PM EDT CLOSE X By Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New England Patriots have a lot to be excited about coming into this season. Drake Maye showed a lot of promise last year, which is exciting enough, but the Patriots built up the offense around him a lot better heading into the season. The offensive line is better, and the weapons around Maye are a lot better this season than last as well. FanSided's Rucker Haringey recently made the bold prediction that Patriots rookie running back TreVeyon Henderson would rush for 1,000 yards this year. FOXBOROUGH, MA - JULY 28: TreVeyon Henderson #32 of the New England Patriots heads to the field during training camp at Gillette Stadium on July 28, 2025 in Foxborough, Massachusetts. FOXBOROUGH, MA - JULY 28: TreVeyon Henderson #32 of the New England Patriots heads to the field during training camp at Gillette Stadium on July 28, 2025 in Foxborough, Massachusetts. Winslow Townson/Getty Images "The Patriots' ground game was shockingly inefficient last year. Rhamondre Stevenson led the team with 207 carries on the year, but averaged less than four yards per rush," Haringey wrote. "Stevenson is still on the roster, but it's telling that New England spent a second-round pick on Treyveon Henderson. He is not the sort of battering ram that Vrabel has utilized in previous seasons, but he has a rare ability to turn ordinary carries into explosive gains. "New England needs to do whatever they can to stop Maye from feeling like he needs to produce all the big plays. That's why Henderson is going to get a lot of work ahead of Stevenson as the season rolls along. He may start slow, but he'll finish strong and top the 1,000-yard mark as a rookie." Rushing for 1,000 yards in a season is quite a steep ask of the rookie running back, especially considering the Patriots' top rusher last season ran for 800 yards on over 200 carries. But the offensive line is better than last season, and Henderson is a better back than Stevenson and Antonio Gibson. If the Patriots are able to move the ball well and give the rookie over 200 carries, there's a chance he eclipses the 1,000 rushing yard mark en route to some consideration for Offensive Rookie of the Year. More NFL: Jets' $8.5 Million Offseason Signing Already Considered 'Free Agency Steal' Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell FOLLOW Share on Twitter Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi