DraftKings Promo Code Get Upgraded $200 MLB, NFL Preseason Bonus Friday
Betting DraftKings NFL MLB DraftKings Promo Code: Get Upgraded $200 MLB, NFL Preseason Bonus Friday Published Aug 08, 2025 at 3:00 PM EDT The DraftKings promo code for new users will score a $200 instant bonus for NFL preseason and MLB games this weekend. The DraftKings promo code for new users will score a $200 instant bonus for NFL preseason and MLB games this weekend. Perry Knotts/Getty Images By Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett Sports Betting Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW Affiliate Links Independently reported, but earns (or may earn) a commission from products/services mentioned. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Secure the updated DraftKings promo code for a busy Friday sports schedule. You will be able to secure $200 in bonus bets for Friday night's NFL preseason games, MLB games and more, while also getting over $200 off NFL Season Ticket for the 2025 season. Click here to start the sign-up process. The first full weekend of NFL preseason games started last night, and we will have three more matchups to bet on with Lions-Falcons, Browns-Panthers and Commanders-Patriots. The Lions will be playing their second game of the preseason after facing the Chargers in the Hall of Fame Game last week. Notably, Shedeur Sanders was announced as the starting quarterback for the Browns' game against the Panthers. Every MLB team will be back in action for Friday after an abbreviated Thursday slate. New users will have plenty of betting opportunities with exciting matchups like Astros-Yankees, Phillies-Rangers, Mets-Brewers, Red Sox-Padres and Blue Jays-Dodgers. The WNBA provides three more games to bet on tonight: Liberty-Wings, Mystics-Lynx and Storm-Aces. Sign up with DraftKings Sportsbook and bet on any of these games to immediately activate your $200 in bonus bets. Activate DraftKings Promo Code Offer DraftKings Promo Code Sign Up Using Links Above – No Code Needed New User Offer Bet $5, Get $200 In Bonus Bets Instantly + Over $200 Off NFL Sunday Ticket In-App Promos Early Exit, MLB Parlay Profit Boost, PGA Mystery Boost, PGA Top Finish Boost, etc. Terms and Conditions New Customers – 21+ in Eligible States Bonus Last Verified On Aug. 8, 2025 Information Confirmed By Newsweek The best part of this offer from DraftKings Sportsbook is that you do not have to worry about winning your initial bet. Once you place your wager of $5 or more, you will receive your $200 in bonus bets along with the NFL Sunday Ticket discount. Any market can be used to activate this offer. Maybe you would like to bet on the Patriots to beat the Commanders. Once that bet has been made, you will get your $200 in bonuses credited to your account. You could even bet on a prop market to activate your offer. For example, betting $5 on Sanders to throw a touchdown in his first professional game will qualify for this promo. You will receive eight (8) $25 bonus bets after you activate your offer with a $5 wager. DraftKings Bet Specials For Friday NFL Preseason Games When you are set up with your new DraftKings Sportsbook account, you will be able to take advantage or several pre-made parlay opportunities within the app. Just scroll to a specific sport or click on an individual game to view the popular markets. Some examples for Friday's NFL preseason games are listed below: Shedeur Sanders 2+ passing touchdowns (+550) Falcons +3.5, Browns +6, Commanders +6.5 (+609) Lions-Falcons under 32.5 points, Browns-Panthers under 32.5 points, Commanders-Patriots under 34.5 points (+611) Read more NFL preseason betting odds, picks for August 8: CLE-CAR, DET-ATL, WAS-NE Steps To Redeem DraftKings Promo Code Offer Claiming this DraftKings promo code offer is easy. All you have to do is follow the steps listed below: Click here to go to the registration page Enter basic personal information (Name, date of birth, mailing address, phone number, email, etc.) Make initial deposit with secure payment method (Credit card, debit card, PayPal account, online banking, etc.) Place initial $5 bet to unlock $200 in bonus bets and over $200 discount on NFL Sunday Ticket Your bonus bets will be valid for seven days before they expire from your account. Newsweek may earn an affiliate commission if you sign up through the links in this article. See the sportsbook operator's terms and conditions for important details. Sports betting operators have no influence over newsroom coverage. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett FOLLOW Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi