Dog saved after 30m plunge from cliff at waterfall
Dog saved after 30m plunge from cliff at waterfall 2 days ago Share Save Steven McKenzie BBC Highlands and Islands reporter Share Save HM Coastguard - Highland Reggie was on holiday in the area with his owner when he had his ordeal at Falls of Foyers A dog has been rescued after falling 30m (100ft) from a cliff at a waterfall near Loch Ness. Volunteer teams from Inverness and Cromarty in the Highlands and Burghead in Moray were sent to Falls of Foyers, south of Inverness after the alarm was raised at about 09:45. The coastguard said Reggie was on holiday in the area with his owner when he had his accident. HM Coastguard - Highland said: "Our volunteers were able to recover Reggie from the gorge before returning him to his relieved owner." It added: "After a trip to the vets to get checked over Reggie will continue his trip, avoiding any more excitement." HM Coastguard - Highland Coastguard teams were called in to rescue Reggie after his accident The 42m (140ft) Falls of Foyers is in a steep-sided gorge near the small community of Foyers. The area is popular with visitors. Getty Images HM Coastguard was alerted to the incident on Friday morning Related internet links HM Coastguard Foyers Inverness Loch Ness Related Plan to extend part of Loch Ness hydro power site The 'lost art' of painting hydro-electric stations Why we're saving a house that's burned down twice More from the BBC 1 day ago Ross County chief on challenges of a Highland club Steven Ferguson says the Dingwall club needs to show the passion of its local community. 1 day ago 3 days ago New name for Inverness Caledonian Thistle's stadium An engineering firm working in the offshore renewables sector has secured the naming rights. 3 days ago 3 days ago Charity set to take over Inverness' oldest church The Old High on the city's riverside has been on the market since 2022. 3 days ago 4 days ago North's biggest farm show escapes storm disruption The 186th Black Isle Show is to take place in Muir of Ord in the Highlands. 4 days ago 6 days ago In pictures: 21st Belladrum Tartan Heart Festival The weekend included performances by Supergrass, Natasha Beddingfield, Peter Capaldi and CMAT. 6 days ago