Blue Jays Predicted To Cut Ties With $63 Million Hurler After Shane Bieber Trade
MLB Blue Jays Predicted To Cut Ties With $63 Million Hurler After Shane Bieber Trade Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:49 PM EDT CLOSE X By Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Toronto Blue Jays found themselves in first place in the American League East at the trade deadline and used the trade block to bolster the roster going forward. One of the bigger additions to the team was Shane Bieber, formerly of the Cleveland Guardians. Bieber hasn't made a big league appearance this year as he recovers from Tommy John surgery. The righty is slowly approaching his 2025 debut in Toronto. Edward Eng of Jays Journal recently predicted the Blue Jays would cut ties with veteran starting pitcher Chris Bassitt following the addition of Bieber at the trade deadline. TORONTO, ON - AUGUST 1: Shane Bieber #57 of the Toronto Blue Jays looks on from the dugout ahead of play against the Kansas City Royals in their MLB game at the Rogers Centre on... TORONTO, ON - AUGUST 1: Shane Bieber #57 of the Toronto Blue Jays looks on from the dugout ahead of play against the Kansas City Royals in their MLB game at the Rogers Centre on August 1, 2025 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. More Mark Blinch/Getty Images "As a pending free agent at the end of the 2025 season, Bassitt has been reliable and productive during his three years with the organization. The veteran right-hander has posted three straight seasons with double digits in wins, including leading the American League with 16 in 2023," Eng wrote. "This year, Bassitt has gone 11-5 with a 4.12 ERA, 1.31 WHIP, along with 126 strikeouts in 129 innings pitched over 24 games played. "At 36 years old, Bassitt will likely be looking for one final multi-year contract to lead up to his potential retirement. With Bieber now representing the Jays' most ideal replacement option for Bassitt in the rotation, and players like Trey Yesavage closing in on their big league debuts, this will likely become Bassitt's last season with Toronto as a result." Bassitt sits on an expiring contract and didn't seem to be returning to Toronto before the Bieber addition. Adding Bieber is seemingly the nail in Bassitt's coffin with the Blue Jays. The Blue Jays have a few talented pitchers surging up the minor leagues. Bassitt is likely going to take a one or two-year deal with whichever team is willing to give him the most money. Either way, whether it's the Blue Jays' choice or Bassitt's, the righty is likely done in Toronto following this season. More MLB: Buzz Growing That Yankees Gold Glove Starter Isn't Safe For 2026 Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell FOLLOW Share on Twitter Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi