Map Shows Where Donald Trump Has Helped Broker Peace Deals Since Election
Politics Donald Trump War Peace Armenia Israel Iran Bomb Nobel Prize Map Shows Where Donald Trump Has Helped Broker Peace Deals Since Election Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:48 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 5:46 PM EDT CLOSE X By Mandy Taheri is a Newsweek reporter based in Brooklyn. She joined Newsweek as a reporter in 2024. You can get in touch with Mandy via email: m.taheri@newsweek.com. Languages: English, French Writers Page Mandy Taheri Weekend Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ President Donald Trump hosted the leaders of Azerbaijan and Armenia at the White House on Friday afternoon for what he called a "historic peace summit," which culminated in a peace framework agreement between the two long-feuding neighbors. Why It Matters Members of the Trump administration and some of his supporters have referred to him as "peacemaker-in-chief," often citing his foreign policy efforts and recent nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize. The White House has claimed that Trump has personally intervened in negotiations between countries in conflict, helping broker ceasefires or peace agreements, although some foreign leaders dispute the extent of his involvement. President Donald Trump answers questions from reporters as he meets with Congolese Foreign Minister Therese Kayikwamba Wagner and Rwandan Foreign Minister Olivier Nduhungirehe on June 27, 2025, in the Oval Office of the White House... President Donald Trump answers questions from reporters as he meets with Congolese Foreign Minister Therese Kayikwamba Wagner and Rwandan Foreign Minister Olivier Nduhungirehe on June 27, 2025, in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. More AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta What To Know Some of Trump's efforts are more fragile and temporary than others. He pledged to end the Russia-Ukraine war on his first day back in office. The Israel-Hamas conflict also continues without resolution, with the humanitarian crisis in Gaza deepening significantly. Late in July, Thailand and Cambodia agreed to a ceasefire following several days of deadly border clashes that killed three dozen and displaced more than 260,000 people, according to the Associated Press. Trump posted on his social media during the conflict that he had spoken with both leaders and pushed them for a ceasefire. Malaysia helped mediate the truce. Despite the agreement, both sides have accused each other of violations. In June, leaders from Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo signed a U.S.-brokered peace agreement to end their decades-long deadly conflict. It called for joint security coordination, "respect of borders" and "refrain from any acts of aggression." In mid-June, Israel launched surprise attacks on Iran. The Islamic Republic retaliated, although not with the same scale of destruction that Israel continued to strike with. Days later, the U.S. militarily got involved by bombing three Iranian nuclear sites, Fordow, Isfahan and Natanz, in the largest B-2 operation in U.S. history. Shortly after, a fragile ceasefire was agreed to. India and Pakistan had a major clash over Kashmir this year, and Trump in May announced on Truth Social a ceasefire between the two countries. Trump said the talks were mediated by the U.S., a claim that Indian leaders have disputed. Many critics have said that several of the ceasefires and peace agreements Trump has championed have proved fragile, with some breaking down or facing violations within weeks of being announced. Other critics have questioned how much involvement the president and administration had in the negotiations. Supporters, however, believe he should be nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. The president has been formally nominated by Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Manet and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Negotiations or Deals Trump Administration Has Worked On Armenia and Azerbaijan (August) Thailand and Cambodia (July) Israel and Iran (June) Rwanda and Democratic Republic of the Congo (June) India and Pakistan (May) What People Are Saying Kaja Kallas, European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, in a Friday statement: "Today's agreements between Armenia and Azerbaijan by Prime Minister Pashinyan and President Aliyev, in the presence of President Trump in the White House, mark a significant breakthrough to end decades of conflict. We strongly commend both sides and the US Administration for using the momentum and making progress possible. It will now be important to ensure the timely implementation of the agreed steps, notably the signing and ratification of the peace treaty." President Donald Trump, on July 28: "I've stopped six wars—I'm averaging about a war a month." White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt, in a July 31 statement: "The president has now ended conflicts between Thailand and Cambodia, Israel and Iran, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India and Pakistan, Serbia and Kosovo, and Egypt and Ethiopia. This means President Trump has brokered, on average, about one peace deal or ceasefire per month during his six months in office." Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Manet: "This is but one example of President Trump's exceptional achievements in de-escalating tensions in some of the world's most volatile regions. His consistent pursuit of peace through diplomacy aligns perfectly with Alfred Nobel's vision-honoring those who have made outstanding contributions to international fraternity and the advancement of peace." What Happens Next Leaders of Armenia and Azerbaijan on Friday signed an agreement aimed at ending decades of conflict. The agreement pledges to create a major transit corridor in the region that will be named the Trump Route for International Peace and Prosperity, according to the Associated Press. Nobel Prizes are set to be announced in October. Update 8/8/25, 5:40 p.m. ET: This article has been updated with additional information. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Mandy Taheri is a Newsweek reporter based in Brooklyn. She joined Newsweek as a reporter in 2024. You can get in touch with Mandy via email: m.taheri@newsweek.com. Languages: English, French Writers Page Mandy Taheri FOLLOW Mandy Taheri is a Newsweek reporter based in Brooklyn. She joined Newsweek as a reporter in 2024. You can get in touch with Mandy via email: m.taheri@newsweek.com. Languages: English, French Mandy Taheri is a Newsweek reporter based in Brooklyn. She joined Newsweek as a reporter in 2024. You can get ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi