Shedeur Sanders Sends Clear Message Ahead of Browns Preseason Debut
NFL Cleveland Browns Shedeur Sanders Sends Clear Message Ahead of Browns Preseason Debut Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:39 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 2:40 PM EDT CLOSE X By Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Cleveland Browns' preseason matchup against the Carolina Panthers on Friday night just may be the most anticipated preseason game in NFL history. The Browns announced earlier this week that quarterbacks Joe Flacco, Kenny Pickett, and Dillon Gabriel will not play, leaving rookie fifth-rounder Shedeur Sanders and recently signed veteran Tyler Huntley, who signed with the Browns just three days ago but has 14 NFL starts and a Pro Bowl under his belt, as the only QBs available. During an appearance on "SportsCenter" Friday afternoon, ESPN's Daniel Oyefusi reported that Sanders will see a pretty significant workload. "You should expect to see a lot of Shedeur Sanders tonight," Oyefusi reported. "He's going to get about 50 plays, so well into the second half before Tyler Huntley takes over. Now Sanders has received zero first-team reps — he's gotten the fewest reps of that four-man group when everyone has been healthy — but the Browns are resting their starters. "So, Sanders is going to be out there with the second- and third-team offense that he's practiced with throughout camp." Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns looks on during Cleveland Browns training camp at CrossCountry Mortgage Campus on July 28, 2025 in Berea, Ohio. Shedeur Sanders #12 of the Cleveland Browns looks on during Cleveland Browns training camp at CrossCountry Mortgage Campus on July 28, 2025 in Berea, Ohio. Nick Cammett/Getty Images More NFL: Packers Receive Another Potentially Disastrous Injury Update Sanders, who's mostly practiced with Cleveland's second- and third-string players, will get the start Friday night. Hours before he's set to make his NFL debut, Sanders sent a clear message to his fans and doubters on his Instagram page. The 23-year-old signal-caller posted a black-and-white photo of himself under center during practice, along with 50 Cent's hit song "If I Can't" playing in the background. The lyrics to the song start off: "If I can't do it, homie, it can't be done," leading many to believe that the former Big 12 Offensive Player of the Year is feeling supremely confident heading into his first start in a game that's expected to draw a lot of eyeballs. A post shared by instagram More NFL: ESPN Analyst Proposes Blockbuster Micah Parsons-Bills Trade With his three direct competitors all sitting out for Friday's game, Sanders has an opportunity to not only make a statement (some believe Cleveland's QB competition is really a three-player race) but to also gain some valuable reps that he hasn't gotten by virtue of being fourth on the depth chart. A strong performance against the Panthers could do wonders for Sanders' chances of making the Browns' 53-man roster out of camp. "Looking bit-picture at this competition, head coach Kevin Stefanski said he's hopeful that Kenny Pickett and Dillon Gabriel can return from their injuries in time for joint practices with the Eagles next week," Oyefusi added. "Stefanski said he's looking to make a decision on QB1 sooner rather than later, so next week should be pretty pivotal." More NFL: Chiefs Taking Major Risk With Latest Patrick Mahomes Decision Vikings' Kevin O'Connell Gives Major Injury Update on WR Justin Jefferson Archie Manning Reveals Grandson Arch Manning's 2026 NFL Draft Fate Aaron Donald Sparks NFL Comeback Buzz After Conversation With Micah Parsons Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Writers Page Michael Gallagher FOLLOW Share on Twitter Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over a decade of writing and editing experience in sports journalism, has won multiple Tennessee Press Association awards, and covered several notable events including an AFC Championship game, a Stanley Cup Final, an NHL All-Star Game, and an NHL Stadium Series. His previous bylines can be found on Athlon Sports, Yahoo Sports, The Hockey News, Fox Sports, the Nashville Scene, the Nashville Post, Yardbarker, and SB Nation. You can read more of Michael's work by following him on X @MGsports_. Michael Gallagher covers national trending news across the NFL, NHL, NBA, WNBA, college football and entertainment for Newsweek. He brings over ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi