Deion Sanders Speaks Out on Browns' Shedeur Sanders Getting First NFL Start
NFL Cleveland Browns Deion Sanders Speaks Out on Browns' Shedeur Sanders Getting First NFL Start Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:38 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 3:06 PM EDT CLOSE X By James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela Contributing Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The NFL world is waiting to see what Shedeur Sanders can do, as the young quarterback will be the starter for the Cleveland Browns on Friday night's Week 1 preseason game against the Carolina Panthers. More news: Browns' 2-Word Shedeur Sanders Message Has Fans Buzzing With Kenny Pickett and Dillon Gabriel nursing hamstring injuries, and Joe Flacco being the presumed starter, the Browns will allow Sanders to take the field and play for the majority of the game. Naturally, more than just fans and pundits are waiting for Shedeur to take the field, as his father Deion Sanders has also been waiting for this moment. Deion spoke out to reporters about Shedeur starting for the Browns. Deion Sanders on Shedeur Sanders' preseason debut with the Browns: "He's approaching it like a [regular-season] game. ... He's thankful and appreciative of the opportunity." — Underdog NFL (@UnderdogNFL) August 8, 2025 "He's approaching it like a [regular-season] game. ... He's thankful and appreciative of the opportunity," Deion stated. It makes complete sense that Shedeur will treat the preseason game as a regular season game. This could potentially be the only time he starts this season. ORLANDO, FLORIDA - SEPTEMBER 28: Head coach Deion Sanders of the Colorado Buffaloes talks with Shedeur Sanders #2 prior to a game against the UCF Knights at FBC Mortgage Stadium on September 28, 2024 in... ORLANDO, FLORIDA - SEPTEMBER 28: Head coach Deion Sanders of the Colorado Buffaloes talks with Shedeur Sanders #2 prior to a game against the UCF Knights at FBC Mortgage Stadium on September 28, 2024 in Orlando, Florida. More Julio Aguilar/Getty Images More news: Chiefs' Travis Kelce Will No Longer Address Super Bowl As stated, Flacco is the clear starter for the Browns, which is why he is not being played during the first preseason game. He might suit up for Week 3, which is generally considered the "dress rehearsal" for all 32 teams. Shedeur also appeared fourth on the depth chart when the first unofficial depth chart was released by the Browns. Sitting behind Flacco, Pickett, and Gabriel means the young signal caller needs to heavily impress coaches to even land the backup spot. Shedeur has a huge opportunity in Friday's game. Should he sling the ball all over the field and showcase elite skill, he might just leapfrog his way to the backup position. If he impresses everyone on a huge level, he could even start for the Browns at some point this season. This is assuming Flacco does not play well, which has been his M.O. through the last few seasons. Shedeur recently made headlines when it was revealed that he blocked Deion from watching him practice, as he stated he had more work to do to "get where he is going." Now, he can happily allow his father to see him play in his first professional start. Browns reporter Daniel Oyefusi also predicted that Shedeur would get 50 plays, meaning he could play well into the second half of the game. For more on the Browns and NFL, head to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. Writers Page James Brizuela FOLLOW Share on Twitter James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book Movies, Video Games, NFL, and MMA. He has in-depth knowledge of the NFL as a whole, having been a fan for over 30 years, and covering the sports over the last six years. He also knows the ins and outs of the comics world, becoming an editor while covering everything DC and beyond on Comic Book Resources, Giant Freakin Robot, and Inside the Magic. James joined Newsweek in March 2024, having previously written NFL content for Sports Illustrated. He is a graduate of the University of California, Riverside. You can get in touch with James by emailing, j.brizuela@newsweek.com. You can find him at X @james_brizuela. James Brizuela is a contributing sports and entertainment writer located in Los Angeles. His focus is on Comics, Comic Book ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi