Marlins' Former Cy Young Winner Predicted To Be Traded In Offseason
MLB Miami Marlins Marlins' Former Cy Young Winner Predicted To Be Traded In Offseason Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:34 PM EDT CLOSE X By Hunter Mulholland is a Newsweek contributor based in St. Louis, Missouri. His focus is MLB Content. Hunter has been with Newsweek since April 2025 and previously worked at Fansided and STL Sports Central. He is a graduate of Westminster College (MO). You can get in touch with Hunter by emailing h.mulholland@newsweek.com. Writers Page Hunter Mulholland Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The Miami Marlins were rumored to be in talks with multiple teams at the trade deadline, shopping their starting pitchers, but ultimately held on to both Sandy Alcantara and Edward Cabrera. R.J. Anderson of CBS Sports believes that it's likely that the Marlins will pick up trade talks for Alcantara in the offseason. MIAMI, FLORIDA - AUGUST 4: Sandy Alcantara #22 of the Miami Marlins delivers a pitch in the game against the Houston Astros at loanDepot park on August 4, 2025 in Miami, Florida. MIAMI, FLORIDA - AUGUST 4: Sandy Alcantara #22 of the Miami Marlins delivers a pitch in the game against the Houston Astros at loanDepot park on August 4, 2025 in Miami, Florida. Photo by Jasen Vinlove/Miami Marlins/Getty Images The Marlins ace was recovering from Tommy John Surgery last season, and upon return this season, was not in top form. Alcantara has a 6.44 ERA entering Friday, which is nearly triple the number he posted in his Cy Young-winning 2022 season. Along with an inflated ERA, the Marlins righty has seen a staggering decline in his strikeout numbers. Despite the statistical decline, teams were interested in Alcantara at the deadline, as the right-hander is under contract next season and has a team option for 2027. Alcantara will turn 30 in September and has rebounded in his four second-half starts with a 3.60 ERA since the halfway point. The Marlins right-hander entered the season as the presumed headliner for starting pitching at the trade deadline, but his poor performance deterred teams that are looking to make a run. While he still garnered interest at the deadline, most teams likely thought the price was too high as the New York Yankees declined to send any of their top 5 prospects in a potential trade, according to Jon Heyman. With essentially two seasons of control with good performance, if suitors think that Alcantara has worked out the kinks and can return to top form next season, the Marlins would be wise to listen to offers over the winter. More MLB: Red Sox Reportedly Extend Rookie Outfielder On $130 Million Contract Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Hunter Mulholland is a Newsweek contributor based in St. Louis, Missouri. His focus is MLB Content. Hunter has been with Newsweek since April 2025 and previously worked at Fansided and STL Sports Central. He is a graduate of Westminster College (MO). You can get in touch with Hunter by emailing h.mulholland@newsweek.com. Writers Page Hunter Mulholland FOLLOW Hunter Mulholland is a Newsweek contributor based in St. Louis, Missouri. His focus is MLB Content. Hunter has been with Newsweek since April 2025 and previously worked at Fansided and STL Sports Central. He is a graduate of Westminster College (MO). You can get in touch with Hunter by emailing h.mulholland@newsweek.com. Hunter Mulholland is a Newsweek contributor based in St. Louis, Missouri. His focus is MLB Content. Hunter has been with ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi