Bet365 Bonus Code WEEK365 Claim $150 NFL Preseason, MLB Betting Bonus
Betting bet365 NFL MLB Bet365 Bonus Code WEEK365: Claim $150 NFL Preseason, MLB Betting Bonus Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:32 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 2:59 PM EDT The bet365 bonus code WEEK365 will give new users a $150 bonus for NFL preseason games including Browns vs. Panthers. The bet365 bonus code WEEK365 will give new users a $150 bonus for NFL preseason games including Browns vs. Panthers. Jason Miller/Getty Images By Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett Sports Betting Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW Affiliate Links Independently reported, but earns (or may earn) a commission from products/services mentioned. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Capitalize on a loaded Friday sports slate with the bet365 bonus code WEEK365. When you set up an account, you will be able to choose between a $150 bonus offer and a $1,000 first bet safety net for tonight's NFL preseason, MLB and WNBA games. Click here to start the easy sign-up process. The NFL preseason continues with Lions-Falcons, Browns-Panthers and Commanders-Patriots tonight. The Lions played in the Hall of Fame Game against the Chargers last week, but the other teams will take the field for the first time in 2025. While not many starters are participating, rookies like Shedeur Sanders will make their professional debuts. The Friday MLB slate is loaded with interesting matchups. Important series like Astros-Yankees and Blue Jays-Dodgers start. The Astros are looking to secure the American League West, while the Yankees look to solidify a wild card spot. The Blue Jays-Dodgers series could be a World Series preview. The WNBA provides three games to bet on: Liberty-Wings, Mystics-Lynx and Storm-Aces. You can use your desired welcome offer to bet on any of these games when you sign up with the bet365 bonus code WEEK365. How To Use bet365 Bonus Code WEEK365 Offers Bet365 Bonus Code WEEK365 New User Offer Bet $5, get $150 Bonus OR $1,000 first bet safety net In-App Promos MLB SGP Boost, WNBA SGP Boost, MLB Early Payout, Daily Lineups, etc. Terms and Conditions New Customers - 21+ in Eligible States Bonus Last Verified On Aug. 8, 2025 Information Confirmed By Newsweek This offer from bet365 is unique in the sports betting industry, as you will be able to choose how you want to start your account. Let's start with how to use the popular $150 bonus offer. All you have to do is bet $5 on any market to secure the bonus bets. The outcome of that wager does not matter, and you will receive your reward before your initial bet even settles. With the $1,000 first bet safety net, you will be able to wager up to that amount and get your stake refunded if your bet loses. So, if you bet something like $700 on the Dodgers to beat the Blue Jays, you will get a large cash payout if your bet wins. If your bet loses, you will be given a $700 bonus refund. Read more NFL preseason betting odds, picks for August 8: CLE-CAR, DET-ATL, WAS-NE Sign Up With bet365 Bonus Code WEEK365 Securing this offer with bet365 is simple. Just click here or on any of our other links and provide the bonus code WEEK365 during the sign-up process. You will be asked to provide basic personal information, like your name, date of birth, mailing address and more, to complete your account. From there, make an initial deposit with a secure payment method to cover your initial bet. This can be done with a credit card, debit card or several other payment methods. Your first bet will be used to activate your desired reward. Any bonus bets you receive from either offer will be valid for one week before they expire. MLB Friday, August 8 Preview The aforementioned Astros-Yankees and Blue Jays-Dodgers games are some of the most notable matchups taking place on Friday. However, the Phillies-Rangers, Mets-Brewers and Red Sox-Padres games also provide plenty of intrigue when it comes to playoff races. Friday's games and start times are listed below: Reds vs. Pirates, 6:40 p.m. EDT Astros vs. Yankees, 7:05 p.m. EDT Athletics vs. Orioles, 7:05 p.m. EDT Angels vs. Tigers, 7:10 p.m. EDT Marlins vs. Braves, 7:15 p.m. EDT Guardians vs. White Sox, 7:40 p.m. EDT Phillies vs. Rangers, 8:05 p.m. EDT Royals vs. Twins, 8:10 p.m. EDT Mets vs. Brewers, 8:10 p.m. EDT Cubs vs. Cardinals, 8:15 p.m. EDT Rockies vs. Diamondbacks, 9:40 p.m. EDT Red Sox vs. Pirates, 9:40 p.m. EDT Rays vs. Mariners, 9:40 p.m. EDT Blue Jays vs. Dodgers, 10:10 p.m. EDT Nationals vs. Giants, 10:15 p.m. EDT Newsweek may earn an affiliate commission if you sign up through the links in this article. See the sportsbook operator's terms and conditions for important details. Sports betting operators have no influence over newsroom coverage. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Writers Page Tyler Everett FOLLOW Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking down everything from Champions League, Premier League and World Cup soccer to the NFL, NBA, college football and college basketball as a writer and podcaster ever since. His journalism experience dates back to his freshman year of college in 2008, when he joined the sports section of NC State's student daily, Technician. Previous stops include a 10-year stint with SportsBusiness Journal as well as extensive freelance sports writing for outlets including Gaming Today, High Press Soccer, the Charlotte Observer, the Raleigh News & Observer, the North State Journal, Bleacher Report and Pack Pride. He lives in Charlotte, NC, with his wife, Ali, and dog, Lola. Email: t.everett@newsweek.com Tyler Everett is a longtime sportswriter who turned his attention to sports betting back in 2019. He has been breaking ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi