The Undertaker Tempted To End Retirement For Match With Top WWE Star
wrestling WWE Professional Wrestling The Undertaker Tempted To End Retirement For Match With Top WWE Star Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:28 PM EDT CLOSE X By Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He has in-depth knowledge of pro wrestling and has covered the industry extensively. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2025 from WrestlingNews.co and had previously worked at GiveMe Sport. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.ravens@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @andrew_ravens. Writers Page Andrew Ravens‎ Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ In what is being seen as the ultimate sign of respect, The Undertaker has named the one current WWE superstar he would have considered coming out of retirement to face. On his podcast, "The Deadman" bestowed this incredible honor upon the former World Heavyweight Champion, GUNTHER. The WWE Hall of Famer has been officially retired from in-ring competition since 2020. He made it clear that while he is staying retired, a match with "The Ring General" would have been a special attraction. The Undertaker's Ultimate Endorsement While speaking with GUNTHER on the latest episode of his Six Feet Under podcast, The Undertaker was effusive in his praise. He said that GUNTHER's style and presence are what would have drawn him back for one more match. "If I had anything left in the tank, you're the one guy that I would consider coming out of retirement to work with," Undertaker said. "From the moment that I saw you at Clash at the Castle, I was like, dang, I would have loved to have worked with you." He then joked with the Austrian star, "I wish you would have got your s*** together a little sooner and got here quicker... But it would have been really good. I might have put you over. We'll never know now, but the match itself would have been awesome." Rhea Ripley and The Undertaker celebrate at Netflix's LA Premiere of WWE Monday Night RAW at Intuit Dome on January 6, 2025 in Inglewood, California. Rhea Ripley and The Undertaker celebrate at Netflix's LA Premiere of WWE Monday Night RAW at Intuit Dome on January 6, 2025 in Inglewood, California. WWE/Getty Images More news: WWE Superstar Announces Retirement Match The Undertaker is arguably the most respected superstar in WWE history. For 30 years, his "Deadman" persona, his legendary undefeated WrestleMania streak, and his role as the locker room leader made him an icon. His praise is considered the highest possible honor a current superstar can receive. Like The Undertaker, GUNTHER has established himself as a dominant and feared champion. His record-breaking 666-day reign as Intercontinental Champion was universally acclaimed, and his subsequent run as World Heavyweight Champion was equally dominant until he was defeated by CM Punk at SummerSlam last weekend. A dream match between The Undertaker and GUNTHER is a compelling "what if" because of their similar, old-school wrestling philosophies. Both men are known for their brutally physical, realistic, and story-driven in-ring styles. The Undertaker specifically mentioned GUNTHER's classic, hard-hitting match against Sheamus at Clash at the Castle in 2022 as the moment that first caught his eye. An endorsement from a legend like The Undertaker is a massive vote of confidence in GUNTHER, especially coming just days after he lost his world title. While the match will only ever exist in fantasy, "The Deadman's" comments have solidified GUNTHER's status as one of the most respected competitors in the industry. More WWE News: Released WWE Superstar Retires From Pro Wrestling Released WWE Star Breaks Silence On Departure Released WWE Star Wants To Join AEW For more on WWE, head to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He has in-depth knowledge of pro wrestling and has covered the industry extensively. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2025 from WrestlingNews.co and had previously worked at GiveMe Sport. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.ravens@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @andrew_ravens. Writers Page Andrew Ravens‎ FOLLOW Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He has in-depth knowledge of pro wrestling and has covered the industry extensively. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2025 from WrestlingNews.co and had previously worked at GiveMe Sport. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.ravens@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @andrew_ravens. Andrew Ravens is a Newsweek reporter. He is based in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His focus is reporting on wrestling news. He ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi