Bills Star Josh Allen Offers Unforgettable Ryder Cup Gift to Special Olympics Athlete
Golf Ryder Cup NFL Bills Star Josh Allen Offers Unforgettable Ryder Cup Gift to Special Olympics Athlete Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:27 PM EDT CLOSE X By Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Writers Page Devlina Sarkar Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ When it comes to unforgettable sports moments, it's not always about the scoreboard. On Thursday, Buffalo Bills quarterback Josh Allen delivered one of the most heartwarming gestures of the NFL preseason by gifting not one but two Ryder Cup tickets to Nathan Forrestel, a Special Olympics athlete and golf influencer with cerebral palsy. KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI - JANUARY 26: Josh Allen #17 of the Buffalo Bills on the sideline during the national anthem prior to the AFC Championship Game against the Kansas City Chiefs at GEHA Field at... KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI - JANUARY 26: Josh Allen #17 of the Buffalo Bills on the sideline during the national anthem prior to the AFC Championship Game against the Kansas City Chiefs at GEHA Field at Arrowhead Stadium on January 26, 2025 in Kansas City, Missouri. (Photo by Aaron M. Sprecher/Getty Images) More Getty Images The surprise came on the final day of Bills training camp at St. John Fisher University in Rochester, New York. Forrestel, known to his 45,000 Instagram followers as @natethegolfguy, was standing near the sideline when Allen approached him with a question. "Hey, I've got a question for you. I've got two tickets to the Ryder Cup. They're yours if you want them. Are you up for that?" he asked the superfan. Forrestel's reaction was pure joy. He shouted "Yes! Yes! Yes!" before embracing Allen in a moment that quickly went viral across social media platforms. Josh Allen gifted this fan Nate, a golfer with cerebral palsy, two tickets to the upcoming Ryder Cup. Incredibly wholesome. pic.twitter.com/ev8jyazAh4 — Fore Play (@ForePlayPod) August 7, 2025 The 2025 Ryder Cup, set to take place in late September at Bethpage Black Golf Course, is one of the most anticipated events in golf. Tickets have been nearly impossible to come by, with the international showdown in less than 50 days now. But Allen, who had access through the Bills organization, saw an opportunity to share the experience with someone who truly loves the game. "I know the Bills have had them for a while; obviously, it's in New York this year," Allen told reporters after practice, as quoted by the Democrat and Chronicle. "Obviously it's in New York this year, so why not have the only New York (NFL) team send some of our Bills Mafia fans over there?" Forrestel, 25, was born with cerebral palsy and has used golf as a way to inspire others and bring humor to his life. His Instagram bio reads, "I'm Nate I am a golfer with cerebral palsy! I create golf and comedy content! I want to inspire people and make people laugh!!!" Allen had previously signed Forrestel's jersey earlier in camp, and the two shared a lighthearted exchange about their golf games. The pro has also swung clubs in tournaments like the AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am, gifted custom clubs to teammates, and even visited Augusta National. Though he won't attend the Ryder Cup himself due to the Bills' schedule, Forrestel will be there cheering on Team USA. More Golf: Collin Morikawa Makes Yet Another Caddie Change Ahead of FedEx Cup Playoffs Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Writers Page Devlina Sarkar FOLLOW Share on TwitterShare on LinkedIn Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as well as film. Devlina has been with Newsweek since February, 2025 and previously wrote for The Indian Express and iTV Network. Devlina is a graduate of Delhi University having also studied at the University of London. You can get in touch with Devlina by emailing d.sarkar@newsweek.com. Devlina Sarkar is a Newsweek contributor based in New Delhi, India. Her focus and passion is all things golf, as ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi