Yankees Challenged to Force Scuffling Devin Williams to Call Their 'Bluff'
MLB New York Yankees Yankees Challenged to Force Scuffling Devin Williams to Call Their 'Bluff' Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:21 PM EDT CLOSE X By Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The New York Yankees have struggled a lot since the All-Star break, and some of that blame can be placed on the team's closer, Devin Williams. Williams has made eight appearances since the All-Star break and recorded four saves in that time. But he's also blown two saves and received a loss in that same span. To make matters worse, the righty has allowed at least one run in six of the eight appearances. Lucas Babits-Feinerman of Yanks Go Yard recently suggested that Williams was playing his way out of the Bronx with his atrocious production this season. NEW YORK, NEW YORK - JULY 06: Devin Williams #38 of the New York Yankees reacts after a pitch against the New York Mets at Citi Field on July 06, 2025 in New York City. NEW YORK, NEW YORK - JULY 06: Devin Williams #38 of the New York Yankees reacts after a pitch against the New York Mets at Citi Field on July 06, 2025 in New York City. Justin Casterline/Getty Images "For a pitcher as talented as Williams, with a sustained track record of success, I fully expect him to put together another dominant stretch before the end of the season," Babits-Feinerman wrote. "However, I would not trust him with the closer responsibilities, especially when three other guys in the bullpen can do the job (Weaver, David Bednar, Camilo Doval). "And if Williams does right the ship, I would extend the qualifying offer at the end of the season, expecting him to decline it and sign a long-term deal elsewhere. If he accepts and calls the bluff, then the Yankees have an expensive but potentially dominant setup man for 2026." It's hard to predict what the Yankees will do with Williams because they still seem to have a lot of confidence in him. Despite his 5.44 ERA, he's only blown three saves and been handed the loss four times. Of these four losses, one of them came in a tied game in extra innings when he surrendered the ghost runner (as an unearned run). His numbers aren't great, and he might not be ready for the bright lights in the Bronx, but there's still a chance the Yankees look to hold onto him. Manager Aaron Boone seems to like and trust him despite his inflated ERA. More MLB: Buzz Growing That Yankees Gold Glove Starter Isn't Safe For 2026 Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Writers Page Zach Pressnell FOLLOW Share on Twitter Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge of professional baseball and all things that come with it after working closely with the sport for years. Zach has been with Newsweek since November 2024 and previously worked at FanSided and OnSI. He is a graduate of Bethany College (WV). You can get in touch with Zach by emailing z.pressnell@newsweek.com. Zach Pressnell is a Newsweek contributor based in Columbus, Ohio. His focus is MLB content. He has an extensive knowledge ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi