Luigi Mangione Prosecutors Respond To Claim They're 'Plainly Lying'
News Breaking News Luigi Mangione Court Crime Luigi Mangione Prosecutors Respond to Claim They're 'Plainly Lying' Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:11 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 5:42 PM EDT CLOSE X By Jenna Sundel is a Newsweek reporter based in New Jersey. Her focus is reporting on breaking news. She has in-depth knowledge of crime and courts. Jenna joined Newsweek in 2024. She previously worked at The Messenger. She is a graduate of Montclair State University. You can find her on X @jennajournalist. You can get in touch with Jenna by emailing j.sundel@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Jenna Sundel and Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry Reporter (Live News) Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Manhattan prosecutors have responded to claims from Luigi Mangione's defense team that they were "plainly lying" on a subpoena to illegally access their client's medical records. Attorneys for Mangione said the Manhattan District Attorney's Office obtained more than 120 pages of private medical data from Aetna without the court or defense team's knowledge. They also alleged that the prosecutors made up a fake court date for the subpoena that was months ahead of the real one. Prosecutors "were plainly lying to get the materials as soon as possible," the defense said in a filing obtained by Business Insider. Newsweek reached out to Mangione's legal team for comment. Why It Matters Mangione, 26, is accused of fatally shooting UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson outside a hotel in Manhattan in December 2024. He was taken into custody in Altoona, Pennsylvania, following a five-day manhunt. Mangione is facing multiple federal charges, including murder through the use of a firearm and stalking. He is also charged at the state level in New York and Pennsylvania. He has pleaded not guilty to all charges. Luigi Mangione, accused of fatally shooting Brian Thompson, the CEO of UnitedHealthcare, appears in Manhattan state court in New York on February 21, 2025. Luigi Mangione, accused of fatally shooting Brian Thompson, the CEO of UnitedHealthcare, appears in Manhattan state court in New York on February 21, 2025. Curtis Means/Pool Photo via AP What To Know In a letter sent to Judge Gregory Carroon Friday obtained by Newsweek, Assistant District Attorney Joel Seidemann said Aetna released the medical information that he said had been outside the remit of the subpoena's request. "The People issued a valid subpoena to Aetna for an appropriately limited set of relevant information," Seidemann wrote. "Through no fault of the People, Aetna seemingly provided materials outside of the scope of the subpoena. The People then properly identified the error and notified the Court and the defense and deleted our copy of said materials." Seidemann said the prosecution was only seeking "the account number and the period of time during which [Luigi Mangione] received coverage" in its subpoena to Aetna. The defense said Aetna sent the prosecution a "trove of protected medical information," including "different diagnoses as well as specific medical complaints made by Mr. Mangione," in the filing obtained by Business Insider. Aetna submitted a new response with only the requested information after the prosecution alerted the health care company to the information outside the scope of the subpoena, according to Seidemann. "Defendant's claims of the People's 'fraudulent' intent are baseless. In the course of any court proceeding, mistakes do occur," Seidemann said. Seidemann said the defense "erred, compounding Aetna's mistake" by sending the prosecution an email attaching the Aetna file. The assistant district attorney said the prosecution complied with ethical obligations by asking the defense attorney if she intended to send the file. "When she indicated that she did not and asked that we delete it, we complied with her request and did not take advantage of her error," Seidemann wrote. The defense requested a hearing and asked the court to consider sanctions, including dismissal of the charges and recusing prosecutors from further involvement in the case. The prosecution said the defense is "not entitled to any relief" and asked the judge to deny the request in its entirety without a hearing. What People Are Saying Assistant District Attorney Joel Seidemann, in a letter to Judge Gregory Carro: "The defense nonetheless seeks to punish the People for the administrative mistakes of others, claiming that the People have perpetrated a 'lie and a fraud' against defendant—an inflammatory and dubious accusation without any basis." Defense attorneys Karen Friedman Agnifilo, Marc Agnifilo and Jacob Kaplan, in a filing obtained by Business Insider: "It is clear that the District Attorney utilized a false and fraudulent subpoena to secure these confidential medical documents behind the back of both the court and defense counsel so as to rush this case to trial in a manner that prejudices Mr. Mangione." What Happens Next Mangione's next court appearance in his New York state case is scheduled for September 16. Do you have a story that Newsweek should be covering? Do you have any questions about this story? Contact LiveNews@newsweek.com. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Jenna Sundel is a Newsweek reporter based in New Jersey. Her focus is reporting on breaking news. She has in-depth knowledge of crime and courts. Jenna joined Newsweek in 2024. She previously worked at The Messenger. She is a graduate of Montclair State University. You can find her on X @jennajournalist. You can get in touch with Jenna by emailing j.sundel@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Jenna Sundel and Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively. Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Hannah Parry FOLLOW Jenna Sundel is a Newsweek reporter based in New Jersey. Her focus is reporting on breaking news. She has in-depth knowledge of crime and courts. Jenna joined Newsweek in 2024. She previously worked at The Messenger. She is a graduate of Montclair State University. You can find her on X @jennajournalist. You can get in touch with Jenna by emailing j.sundel@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Jenna Sundel is a Newsweek reporter based in New Jersey. Her focus is reporting on breaking news. She has in-depth ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi