Tech CEO Says He Was Sent Bloody Pig's Head Over Real Estate Deals
News AI Artificial Intelligence Las vegas Tech Tech CEO Says He Was Sent Bloody Pig's Head Over Real Estate Deals Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:10 PM EDT CLOSE X By Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on U.S. politics and current affairs. Alia joined Newsweek in 2024 from Business Insider, where she reported extensively on U.S. politics, far-right extremism, the war in Ukraine and other global events. She is a graduate of the University of Bristol and City, University of London. You can get in touch with Alia by emailing a.shoaib@newsweek.com. Languages: English and Urdu Writers Page Alia Shoaib News Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The CEO of a tech company in Las Vegas said he was sent a bloody pig's head and a threatening note in the mail. Blake Owens, the founder and CEO of Agrippa, shared the contents of the note, in which an anonymous writer expressed anger at the company's use of AI to help people conduct real estate deals without brokers. The note said: "Don't get greedy because pigs get fat and hogs get slaughtered." Newsweek contacted the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department via email on Friday outside of regular working hours. Why It Matters The incident highlights the fears and hostility some people feel toward AI because of its potential to disrupt traditional industries like real estate. What To Know Owens is the CEO of Agrippa, which is an AI platform that connects people looking for funding for commercial real estate projects with potential investors, without using a broker. The CEO told the Las Vegas Review-Journal that the severed pig's head and note was mailed to a family member's house on July 29. Agrippa CEO Blake Owens said he was sent a bloody pig's head and a threatening note in the mail. Agrippa CEO Blake Owens said he was sent a bloody pig's head and a threatening note in the mail. Getty Images The note said: "'AI' is not going to replace brokers. Clearly you don't understand real estate wasn't built by developers or investors. And it sure as hell wasn't built by tech guys in Lululemon. It was built by brokers." The note, which described Owens as a "Clark Kent knockoff," was written anonymously and was sent along with a pig's head wrapped in plastic. "Perhaps this person watched too much of The Godfather," Owens told 8 News Now. "Needless to say, I still take it very seriously, but don't feel like I'm being truly threatened. It was a message." Owens expressed empathy for the person who wrote the note, and said that he understood it came from a place of fear about change. "I understand this person is probably just frustrated that business isn't going well for them, and then they see AI replacement stories on top of that," Owens told the Las Vegas Review-Journal. "And I just so happen to be someone they can focus their frustration on." Agrippa facilitated the $45 million sale of a Las Vegas hotel casino in June using its AI tool to help manage bids for the property. What People Are Saying Agrippa CEO Blake Owens told 9 News Now: "I think a lot of people are afraid of change and what's coming with AI, because it really is a tsunami of change that people are trying to resist. But the more you embrace it, the better you'll do, the more skills that you'll accumulate more value you'll bring to the table." What Happens Next The Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department classed the incident as a "non-threat," according to Owens. The CEO said that he would not pursue charges if the sender was identified. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on U.S. politics and current affairs. Alia joined Newsweek in 2024 from Business Insider, where she reported extensively on U.S. politics, far-right extremism, the war in Ukraine and other global events. She is a graduate of the University of Bristol and City, University of London. You can get in touch with Alia by emailing a.shoaib@newsweek.com. Languages: English and Urdu Writers Page Alia Shoaib FOLLOW Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on U.S. politics and current affairs. Alia joined Newsweek in 2024 from Business Insider, where she reported extensively on U.S. politics, far-right extremism, the war in Ukraine and other global events. She is a graduate of the University of Bristol and City, University of London. You can get in touch with Alia by emailing a.shoaib@newsweek.com. Languages: English and Urdu Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi