WNBA Power Rankings Los Angeles Sparks Fly, Fever Cool Down
Sports Women's Sports Basketball NBA WNBA Power Rankings: Los Angeles Sparks Fly, Fever Cool Down Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:04 PM EDT CLOSE X By Devin Robertson is a journalist and social media expert with experience covering sneakers, film, music, and sports especially basketball. Devin is a graduate of the University of Memphis and can be reached at d.robertson@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Devin Robertson Social Media Coordinator Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ With the trade deadline in the rearview mirror, the WNBA has seen a lot of movement as teams prepare for the playoffs. Minnesota, for example, added defensive stalwart DiJonai Carrington to their already-stacked team. Elsewhere around the league, Seattle acquired two-way presence Brittney Sykes, and Connecticut has Aaliyah Edwards on the roster. But that's not the only movement to consider. While some teams are adding new pieces, others are waiting for established players to return. Breanna Stewart of the reigning champion Liberty, Rhyne Howard of the dynamic Atlanta Dream, MVP favorite Napheesa Clark of Minnesota and Caitlin Clark of the rising Indiana Fever are out with injuries as their teams press forward. With the stage set for the home stretch, here's where teams land this week. Alyssa Thomas of the Phoenix Mercury reacts during the second half of the WNBA game at PHX Arena on August 7, 2025, in Phoenix during a 95-60 victory over the Indiana Fever. Alyssa Thomas of the Phoenix Mercury reacts during the second half of the WNBA game at PHX Arena on August 7, 2025, in Phoenix during a 95-60 victory over the Indiana Fever. Christian Petersen/Getty Images 13. Connecticut Sun (5-24) Last: 12 | Upcoming: LVA (8/10), GSV (8/11), CHI (8/13) Connecticut traded young guard Jacy Sheldon to the Washington Mystics in exchange for Aaliyah Edwards. Canadian national team standout Edwards gets to develop under the wing of the legendary Tina Charles while making consistent time for Saniya Rivers and Bria Hartley as well. While Connecticut may be rebuilding, the addition of Edwards to their young core is another interesting piece, but questions remain. How long will the team be able to bide its time with a move to Boston looming? 12. Chicago Sky (8-22) Last: 13 | Upcoming: IND (8/9), CON (8/13), GSV (8/15) Chicago was able to take advantage of the Brittney Sykes trade to take down the Washington Mystics while lacking Angel Reese, but their offensive woes still haunt them. Ariel Atkins, the team's second-leading scorer, returned to the lineup against Washington to help bolster a scoring-deficient team, but with Reese injured, they lacked the firepower needed to take down the tough Atlanta Dream. 11. Dallas Wings (8-22) Last: 11 | Upcoming: NYL (8/8), WAS (8/10), IND (8/12), LAS (8/15) Ahead of the deadline, Dallas traded DiJonai Carrington, one of their big acquisitions during free agency. That move, which brought former No. 2 draft pick Diamond Miller to Texas, adds another young talent to the growing Wings team alongside Paige Bueckers. 10. Washington Mystics (13-16) Last: 10 | Upcoming: MIN (8/8), DAL (8/10), GSV (8/13), IND (8/15) The Washington Mystics were on a brief skid before trading their steadying force, Brittney Sykes. Shipping Sykes to Seattle puts the weight on the rookie duo Sonia Citron and Kiki Iriafen to carry the team for the rest of the season, which could include a playoff berth. Additionally, the Mystics exchanged promising young forward Aaliyah Edwards for Jacy Sheldon of the Connecticut Storm to bolster their guard depth. 9. Golden State Valkyries (14-15) Last: 7 | Upcoming: LAS (8/9), CON (8/11), WAS (8/13), CHI (8/15) The Valkyries are still floating around the middle of the pack, which is admirable considering they lost All-Star Kayla Thornton to injury for the remainder of the season. However, with the playoffs looming, Golden State hopes to pick up the scoring pace, especially with the Los Angeles Sparks hot on their tails in the standings. 8. Seattle Storm (16-14) Last: 8 | Upcoming: LVA (8/8), LAS (8/10), ATL (8/13), ATL (8/15) Seattle is looking to rain on the competition's parade with the addition of Brittney Sykes, who is one of the league's best two-way players. With her presence in the lineup, some additional help on both ends could launch the Storm firmly into contender status. Want proof? Seattle even challenged the championship-favorite Lynx in a game without Sykes, losing by 4 points. 7. Indiana Fever (17-14) Last: 3 | Upcoming: CHI (8/9), DAL (8/12), WAS (8/15) The Fever is cooling off in Indiana. After a sizzling five-game winning streak, the club lost two in a row to teams on their own hot streaks. Though they may be on a slide, the Fever have proven to be one of the deeper and more capable teams in the league. With Caitlin Clark still out of the lineup, Kelsey Mitchell and Aliyah Boston ignited the winning streak, with the latter earning Player of the Week honors. If Clark comes back soon, Indy could make an even bigger splash. 6. Las Vegas Aces (16-14) Last: 4 | Upcoming: SEA (8/8), CON (8/10), NYL (8/13), PHX (8/15) The Las Vegas Aces keep battling. After a 53-point loss to the Minnesota Lynx, A'ja Wilson publicly challenged her teammates, saying: "If you weren't embarrassed from yesterday, then don't come to this gym." The Aces responded with back-to-back wins against the Valkyries, one of them by 24 points. A'ja Wilson is still etching her name in the history books. After dropping 27 against Golden State, she has the fourth-most 25+ point games in WNBA history and became the 10th player in WNBA history to notch 500 career blocks. 5. Los Angeles Sparks (14-15) Last: 6 | Upcoming: GSV (8/9), SEA (8/10), NYL (8/12), DAL (8/15) The Los Angeles Sparks have been one of the hottest teams since coming out of the All-Star break, going 6-2 in that span. Shaking off the injury bug and getting rising young players Rickea Jackson, Rae Burrell and Cameron Brink back has turned the team's fate around. Jackson has especially elevated her game as of late, averaging 18 points since the All-Star break despite a few low-scoring affairs. Brink's return has added an extra deterrent at the rim as shown in her five-block, 15-minute outing against Indiana. 4. New York Liberty (19-10) Last: 2 | Upcoming: DAL (8/8), MIN (8/10), LAS (8/12), LVA (8/13) New York may be without Breanna Stewart, but the Liberty have kept the torch alight in her absence. Sabrina Ionescu has been an absolute force lately. The Oregon product was named Eastern Conference Player of the Month while averaging 21.4 points, 6.6 assists and 5.5 boards. Ionescu won't have to do it all alone, however, as the Liberty added 2019 Finals MVP Emma Meesseman to bolster the team while Stewart heals. 3. Phoenix Mercury (19-11) Last: 9 | Upcoming: ATL (8/10), LVA (8/15) Phoenix is heating back up after suffering their longest losing streak of the season. Thanks to their triple-double machine, Alyssa Thomas, the Mercury are rising back up the rankings. Thomas became the first WNBA player to record three straight triple-doubles after dismantling the Indiana Fever, highlighting her bona fide MVP credentials. The quartet of Thomas, Satou Sabally, Kahleah Copper and DeWanna Bonner also looks like it could be finally jelling, with all four scoring in double figures in the win against Indiana. 2. Atlanta Dream (19-11) Last: 5 | Upcoming: PHX (8/10), SEA (8/13), SEA (8/15), Atlanta may be without key contributors Rhyne Howard and Brittney Griner, but they've shown their depth and resilience as of late. Allisha Gray should be on everyone's radar as a potential MVP candidate as one of the league's premier two-way talents. She can light it up from deep as she did against Phoenix, where she knocked down seven triples. Fellow All-Star Bri Jones has been equally effective in the post as a defensive force and scorer. Naz Hillmon's growth also continues to be a highlight for the Dream as well she's averaging career highs across the board since seeing an expanded role. 1. Minnesota Lynx (25-5) Last: 1 | Upcoming: WAS (8/8), NYL (8/10) The rich get richer. The league-leading Minnesota Lynx added another piece by trading for two-way weapon DiJonai Carrington. Reuniting Carrington with former Stanford teammate Alanna Smith makes a stifling defense even more stingy. Minnesota hopes that the additional move can keep them ahead of the pack while MVP-favorite Napheesa Collier heals from an ankle injury. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Devin Robertson is a journalist and social media expert with experience covering sneakers, film, music, and sports especially basketball. Devin is a graduate of the University of Memphis and can be reached at d.robertson@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Devin Robertson FOLLOW Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare on LinkedIn Devin Robertson is a journalist and social media expert with experience covering sneakers, film, music, and sports especially basketball. Devin is a graduate of the University of Memphis and can be reached at d.robertson@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Devin Robertson is a journalist and social media expert with experience covering sneakers, film, music, and sports especially basketball. Devin ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi