Map of Countries That Have Stopped Weapons Exports to Israel
World Israel Israeli-Palestinian Conflict Gaza Arms Sales Weapons Map of Countries That Have Stopped Weapons Exports to Israel Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:03 PM EDT CLOSE X By Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on U.S. politics and current affairs. Alia joined Newsweek in 2024 from Business Insider, where she reported extensively on U.S. politics, far-right extremism, the war in Ukraine and other global events. She is a graduate of the University of Bristol and City, University of London. You can get in touch with Alia by emailing a.shoaib@newsweek.com. Languages: English and Urdu Writers Page Alia Shoaib News Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Germany has become the latest country to suspend the export of arms to Israel. Chancellor Friedrich Merz said on Friday his government would halt all shipments of military equipment that could be used in Gaza, in direct response to Israel's security cabinet approving a plan to take control of Gaza City. Several countries have imposed full or partial suspensions on arms exports to Israel since it began its military offensive in Gaza. Why It Matters The growing list of countries suspending arms exports to Israel reflects mounting concerns over the humanitarian impact of Israel's military operations, including the high number of civilian casualties and potential violations of international law. What To Know The United States is by far the biggest supplier of weapons to Israel, accounting for two-thirds of all arms sold to the country. Germany and Italy are the second and third largest suppliers, accounting for around 30 and 5 percent of weapons sold to Israel respectively, between 2013 and 2023, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). These are all of the countries that have implemented full or partial suspensions of arms exports to Israel since the invasion of Gaza. Germany – Said it will not authorize any exports of military equipment that could be used in the Gaza Strip until further notice as of August 2025. Slovenia – Banned all arms trade with Israel, including transit and imports, in August 2025, becoming the first European Union country to implement a ban. Canada – Suspended all new arms export permits to Israel in March 2024, but continued with preapproved contracts. Italy – Imposed a total suspension of any new arms exports to Israel in October 2024, but is fulfilling prewar orders. Japan – Itochu Corporation ended its partnership with Israeli arms maker Elbit Systems in Feb 2024 at the request of Japan's Defense Ministry. This was not a formal nationwide government embargo. Belgium – Belgium had already banned arms exports from its Wallonia region to Israel in 2009. A Belgian court ruled in 2025 that the country's Flanders region halt all transits of military equipment to Israel. Israeli army main battle tanks are positioned near the border with the Gaza Strip in southern Israel on August 5, 2025. I Israeli army main battle tanks are positioned near the border with the Gaza Strip in southern Israel on August 5, 2025. I JACK GUEZ/AFP via Getty Images The Netherlands – Halted the export of F-35 fighter jet parts to Israel in February 2024, but a December 2024 court ruling rejected a full arms ban. Spain – Suspended all new arms exports to Israel in October 2023. United Kingdom – Suspended about 30 of roughly 350 arms export licenses to Israel in November 2024, over concerns the weapons might be used to violate international humanitarian law in Gaza. The Hague Group – A group of 12 countries, known as The Hague Group, committed at a July 2025 summit to halting all arms transfers to Israel. The countries were Bolivia, Colombia, Cuba, Indonesia, Iraq, Libya, Malaysia, Namibia, Nicaragua, Oman, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and South Africa. Turkey later said it would follow the measures. What People Are Saying German Chancellor Friedrich Merz, in a statement on August 8: "From the German government's point of view, the even tougher military action of the Israeli army in the Gaza Strip, which was decided by the Israeli security cabinet last night, makes it increasingly difficult to see how these goals are to be achieved. Under these circumstances, the German government is not approving any exports of armaments that can be used in the Gaza Strip until further notice." What Happens Next Other countries might follow suit and suspend arms exports to Israel as the conflict in Gaza escalates. However, the U.S, which is by far Israel's largest arms supplier, has shown no signs of restricting military support. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on U.S. politics and current affairs. Alia joined Newsweek in 2024 from Business Insider, where she reported extensively on U.S. politics, far-right extremism, the war in Ukraine and other global events. She is a graduate of the University of Bristol and City, University of London. You can get in touch with Alia by emailing a.shoaib@newsweek.com. Languages: English and Urdu Writers Page Alia Shoaib FOLLOW Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on U.S. politics and current affairs. Alia joined Newsweek in 2024 from Business Insider, where she reported extensively on U.S. politics, far-right extremism, the war in Ukraine and other global events. She is a graduate of the University of Bristol and City, University of London. You can get in touch with Alia by emailing a.shoaib@newsweek.com. Languages: English and Urdu Alia Shoaib is a freelance news reporter for Newsweek based between London, UK and Abuja, Nigeria. She primarily reports on ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi