NY Giants Get Promising Sign From Rookie RB Cam Skattebo
NFL New York Giants NY Giants Get Promising Sign From Rookie RB Cam Skattebo Published Aug 08, 2025 at 2:02 PM EDT CLOSE X By Justin Grasso Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ The preseason availability of the rookie running back Cam Skattebo is currently unclear for the New York Giants. Lately, Skattebo has been dealing with a tricky hamstring injury, which has sidelined him more often than not. Prior to Thursday's practice session, Skattebo was noticeably absent from the practice session. On Thursday, the rookie running back was seen suited up and putting in some work on the side, as the team went through its training camp session. Skattebo doesn't appear to be fully back in action, but Thursday's appearance was a good sign that suggests he's making progress towards returning. via @SNYGiants: Cam Skattebo is working off to the side at Giants camp today Cam Skattebo is working off to the side at Giants camp today pic.twitter.com/gHVtK99Yn5 — Giants Videos (@SNYGiants) August 7, 2025 Although Skattebo has been dealing with his setback, the rookie running back has been having a strong training camp. Like some of the other members of his draft class, Skattebo has received a lot of praise throughout the summer as he's making a case to land some targets and carries during the regular season. Will Skattebo get an opportunity to play in the preseason soon? That's a major question mark heading into Saturday's action against the Buffalo Bills. Cam Skattebo #44 of the New York Giants runs with the ball during training camp at Quest Diagnostics Training Center on July 24, 2025 in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Cam Skattebo #44 of the New York Giants runs with the ball during training camp at Quest Diagnostics Training Center on July 24, 2025 in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Ishika Samant/Getty Images Read More: Malik Nabers Held Out of Giants Practice Due to Lingering Setback This season, Skattebo leaves behind a four-year run in the NCAA, with those seasons split between Sacramento State and Arizona State. During his first full season at Arizona State, Skattebo started in seven of the 12 games he played. He picked up 164 carries for 783 yards and nine touchdowns. He also had 24 catches for 286 yards and one score. In his second and final season with the Sun Devils, Skattebo started all 13 games he appeared in. The Giant rushed for 293 carries, producing 1,711 yards and 21 touchdowns. He also had 45 catches for 605 yards and three touchdowns. Read More: Former NY Giants First-Round Pick Gets Cut New York called on Skattebo with the 105th pick in the fourth round of the 2025 NFL Draft. Without a bell-cow back in the mix, Skattebo could win the opportunity to share carries in a committee in 2025. First, he has to overcome the injury obstacle. The Giants are set to pay a visit to the Buffalo Bills for a Saturday afternoon matchup this weekend. If Skattebo can't get the nod to play, then his next opporotunity would come on Saturday, August 16, at home against the New York Jets. For more New York Giants and NFL news, head over to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Justin Grasso FOLLOW The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi