Trump Signs Directive That Could Deploy US Military in Mexico Report
U.S. Cartels Donald Trump U.S.-Mexico border Pentagon U.S. military Mexico Trump Signs Directive That Could Deploy US Military in Mexico: Report Published Aug 08, 2025 at 1:57 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 3:17 PM EDT CLOSE X By Dan Gooding is a Newsweek reporter based in New York City. His focus is reporting on immigration and border security. He has covered immigration issues extensively, including the root causes of migration to the U.S., its impact on border communities and responses around the country. Dan joined Newsweek in 2024 from The Independent and previously worked at The Messenger, Business Insider and in U.K. local radio. He is a graduate of De Montfort University in Leicester, UK. You can get in touch with Dan by emailing d.gooding@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @DanGooding. Languages: English. Writers Page Dan Gooding Politics Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ President Donald Trump ordered the United States military to target drug cartels and Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs) on Friday, prompting concerns over diplomacy and presidential overreach, the New York Times reported. Citing sources close to the matter, the Times reported that Trump signed an order directing the Pentagon to begin using military force against overseas targets. It's not clear if the order includes language about obtaining Congress' consent. The Department of Defense declined to comment to Newsweek, deferring to the White House. A White House spokesperson said Trump remains committed to "protecting the homeland". Newsweek reached out to the Mexican embassy in the U.S. for comment via email Friday afternoon. Why It Matters The Trump administration declared multiple cartels and criminal gangs as FTOs earlier this year, saying the designation was necessary to counter their activities in the U.S., including fentanyl trafficking. Using the military to target the groups would mark a significant escalation in enforcement—one that could significantly impact relations with two countries: Mexico and Venezuela. President Donald Trump departs an event to honor recipients of the Purple Heart in the East Room of the White House on August 07, 2025 in Washington, DC. President Donald Trump departs an event to honor recipients of the Purple Heart in the East Room of the White House on August 07, 2025 in Washington, DC. Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images What To Know The order signed by Trump reportedly provides an official basis for direct military operations at sea and on foreign soil against cartels, which would likely mean in the Gulf of Mexico and potentially within Mexico itself. Making such moves without the approval of Congress opens up legal questions about whether the military could be seen as murdering suspected cartel members, rather than acting in the defense of the U.S., the Times noted. "Previous efforts to escalate the war on drugs through partnered operations in Colombia and Mexico failed to eliminate drug trafficking organizations or stem the flow of illicit drugs into the United States," Brandan Buck, Cato Institute foreign policy research fellow, told Newsweek. "Unilateral action would assuredly fail to stem the flow of drugs into the United States while causing significant diplomatic fallout." The justification for the shift would likely be ongoing efforts to cut off fentanyl smuggling, which continues to impact American communities, with the synthetic opioid linked to thousands of deaths. When Secretary of State Marco Rubio first declared eight groups as terrorist organizations in February, he opened up the possibility of military action against the MS-13 and Tren de Aragua gangs, as well as dominant cartels including Sinaloa and Jalisco, for their roles in fentanyl trafficking, murders and other violent crimes across the U.S. At the time, experts told Newsweek that the designation could prompt dangerous blowback from the cartels, putting the lives of Americans living and working in Mexico and Venezuela at risk. Read more Mom in green card process detained by ICE after 25 years in US Map shows where Donald Trump has helped broker peace deals since election Kamala Harris finishes third place in her home state in new 2028 poll Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum also criticized the FTO designation, saying it could infringe on Mexican sovereignty. Trump's reported directive on Friday now opens the door to the possibility of American troops crossing the border into her country. Trump's latest order comes after the administration designated the Venezuelan-based Cartel de los Soles as an FTO late last month, alleging that it's led by the country's president, Nicolás Maduro. What People Are Saying Henry Ziemer, associate fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, told Newsweek: "Certainly the most extreme possibility would be that the United States could use this directive to target members of the Venezuelan government and military up to and including President Nicolas Maduro, now linked to the "Cartel de los Soles" now designated by the Treasury as a global terrorist entity. "For the time being, I do not believe this is a likely outcome given the Trump administration's aversion to entanglement in major overseas military operations. Nevertheless, these reports are undoubtedly causing sleepless nights for the regime." Buck told Newsweek: "This move, if true, will likely reignite debates on Capitol Hill about the use of military force as it bypasses Congress's prerogative to declare war." White House spokesperson Anna Kelly said in a statement to Newsweek: "President Trump's top priority is protecting the homeland, which is why he took the bold step to designate several cartels and gangs as foreign terrorist organizations." What's Next As of Friday afternoon, the Trump administration has not made an official announcement regarding the directive, making it unclear if Congress would be consulted on the matter. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Dan Gooding is a Newsweek reporter based in New York City. His focus is reporting on immigration and border security. He has covered immigration issues extensively, including the root causes of migration to the U.S., its impact on border communities and responses around the country. Dan joined Newsweek in 2024 from The Independent and previously worked at The Messenger, Business Insider and in U.K. local radio. He is a graduate of De Montfort University in Leicester, UK. You can get in touch with Dan by emailing d.gooding@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @DanGooding. Languages: English. Writers Page Dan Gooding FOLLOW Share on Twitter Dan Gooding is a Newsweek reporter based in New York City. His focus is reporting on immigration and border security. He has covered immigration issues extensively, including the root causes of migration to the U.S., its impact on border communities and responses around the country. Dan joined Newsweek in 2024 from The Independent and previously worked at The Messenger, Business Insider and in U.K. local radio. He is a graduate of De Montfort University in Leicester, UK. You can get in touch with Dan by emailing d.gooding@newsweek.com. You can find him on X @DanGooding. Languages: English. Dan Gooding is a Newsweek reporter based in New York City. His focus is reporting on immigration and border security. ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi