Map Shows Tropical Storm Timeline as Experts Predict 5 Storms This Month
U.S. Weather Hurricane Forecast Tropical Storm Storm map Map Shows Tropical Storm Timeline as Experts Predict 5 Storms This Month Published Aug 08, 2025 at 1:46 PM EDT CLOSE X By Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Anna Skinner Senior Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ AccuWeather meteorologists are predicting that up to four more named storms could form this month for the Atlantic hurricane season as experts monitor multiple disturbances that could strengthen into tropical storms. Tropical Storm Dexter, the first named storm of August, disintegrated on Thursday. Why It Matters The National Hurricane Center (NHC) is tracking two disturbances in the Atlantic, one with a low chance of forming within the next week and one with a moderate chance of doing so. Earlier in the season, AccuWeather meteorologists warned that the Atlantic hurricane season typically doesn't hit its peak until the first few weeks of September. Now, the waters are beginning to warm in the eastern and central Atlantic, AccuWeather senior meteorologist Dan Pydynowski told Newsweek, and tropical waves coming off the coast of Africa will moisten the atmosphere and eliminate the Saharan dust that prohibits tropical development. What To Know On Friday morning, AccuWeather announced that its expert tropical meteorologists are forecasting three to five named storms to form this month. The most immediate system has a low chance of developing offshore of the East Coast between August 9 and 10. There also is a high chance of tropical development from August 9 to 11 in the central Atlantic Ocean as a tropical wave works its way west from Africa. Meteorologists are monitoring a third area in the northeastern Gulf, which has a low chance of developing between August 10 and 11. Slightly further out, meteorologists are tracking an area in the central Atlantic that has a medium risk of developing between August 13 and 15. "The average August contains around four [named storms], so getting three to five named storms in August would be pretty typical for a relatively average hurricane season," Pydynowski told Newsweek. "We've already had one, of course, with Dexter." The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is predicting from 13 to 19 named storms for this year's Atlantic hurricane season, with six to 10 strengthening into hurricanes and three to five into major hurricanes. Meanwhile, AccuWeather is predicting between 13 and 18 named storms, with seven to 10 hurricanes and three to five major hurricanes. Of the named storms that form this year, AccuWeather forecast three to six direct impacts to the U.S. this season. A map from AccuWeather shows the areas where tropical storms could form in the coming weeks. A map from AccuWeather shows the areas where tropical storms could form in the coming weeks. AccuWeather What People Are Saying AccuWeather senior meteorologist Dan Pydynowski told Newsweek: "All the ingredients are starting to come together, especially as you get deeper into the month of August." NHC in an outlook regarding the tropical wave in the central Atlantic: "A tropical wave over the central tropical Atlantic is producing minimal shower activity. Development of this system appears unlikely during the next day or two due to surrounding dry air, but environmental conditions are forecast to become more conducive in a few days. A tropical depression could form during the early or middle part of next week while the system moves northwestward to northward across the central tropical and subtropical Atlantic." What Happens Next? There are no tropical storm or hurricane watches or warnings in place for the Atlantic hurricane season. However, people living in hurricane-prone areas are urged to make adequate preparations before a storm arrives, such as stocking up on emergency supplies and creating an evacuation plan. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Anna Skinner FOLLOW Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather but she also reports on other topics for the National News Team. She has covered climate change and natural disasters extensively. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from Current Publishing, a local weekly central Indiana newspaper where she worked as a managing editor. She was a 2021 finalist for the Indy's Best & Brightest award in the media, entertainment and sports category. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.skinner@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Anna Skinner is a Newsweek senior reporter based in Indianapolis. Her focus is reporting on the climate, environment and weather ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi