Mom in Green Card Process Who Came to US 25 Years Ago Detained by ICE
News US Politics Immigration Migrants Green Card Trump administration Pennsylvania ICE Dhs Mom in Green Card Process Detained by ICE After 25 Years in US Published Aug 08, 2025 at 1:43 PM EDT Updated Aug 08, 2025 at 4:21 PM EDT CLOSE X By Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Boston Globe. He is a graduate of Emerson College. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.stanton@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Andrew Stanton Weekend Staff Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Ester Soliman-Ramos, a Pennsylvania woman who moved to the United States 25 years ago and was in the process of obtaining a green card, has been detained by U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents, according to a GoFundMe created to fundraise legal fees for her children. Assistant Homeland Security Secretary of Office of Public Affairs Tricia McLaughlin told Newsweek that Soliman-Ramos has a criminal history including theft and driving without a license. "Under President Trump and Secretary Noem, if you break the law, you will face the consequences. Criminal illegal aliens are not welcome in the U.S.," she said. Newsweek also reached out to Soliman-Ramos' son via Facebook. Why It Matters President Donald Trump campaigned on mass deportation of undocumented immigrants, specifically targeting those with violent criminal records, and his administration ramped up immigration enforcement since his return to office in January. Recent polls, however, suggest some Americans are turning on Trump's immigration policy amid reports that individuals with no criminal records or nonviolent offenses are being targeted. The administration said it deported around 100,000 illegal immigrants in the initial months of the presidency, and many individuals have been deported following Trump invoking the rarely used Alien Enemies Act of 1798, which has been criticized and blocked by judges. What To Know Soliman-Ramos and her family immigrated to the U.S. from the Philippines 25 years ago, according to the GoFundMe. The GoFundMe stated her family immigrated to the U.S. legally, but McLaughlin said she has been in the country illegally. However, her husband passed away in 2015, "leaving her family in legal limbo," the fundraiser noted. She began the process of obtaining a green card last year when her youngest daughter, a U.S. citizen, turned 21 and was able to sponsor her. However, earlier this year, she received a notification from Ice to register for an "Alternatives to Detention" program on August 4, according to the post. When she showed up for the meeting, she was allegedly detained by immigration agents and is now facing the possibility of deportation, the GoFundMe said. Newsweek confirmed that ICE's database shows Soliman-Ramos is being held at the Clinton County Correctional Facility in McElhattan, Pennsylvania. As of 3:30 p.m. ET on Friday, the GoFundMe has raised more than $37,000 to fund legal representation for her family. There have been numerous reports of migrants living in the U.S. being detained amid Trump's immigration crackdown. For instance, a Michigan mother of two is facing deportation after reporting an alleged assault to her local police. A Brazilian man living in Florida with a valid Florida ID and work permit was detained while visiting the Grand Canyon last month. Ester Soliman, a Pennsylvania woman reportedly detained by ICE, poses fora photograph with her family. Ester Soliman, a Pennsylvania woman reportedly detained by ICE, poses fora photograph with her family. GoFundMe What People Are Saying McLaughlin told Newsweek on Friday: "ICE arrested Estrelita Soliman-Ramos, a criminal illegal alien from the Philippines, on August 4, 2025. Her criminal history includes two arrests for theft. On July 28, 2025, she was pulled over by local police for driving without a license and improperly restraining a child. On August 4, she reported to York ERO, and she was taken into custody. She legally entered the U.S. on a B-2 tourist visa that allowed her to remain in the U.S. until March 4, 2000. Over 25 years later, she is still illegally in the U.S. A judge issued her a final order of removal in 2011, and her appeal was denied." Soliman-Ramos' daughter Sanjee wrote in a Facebook post: "My mom was recently detained by ICE and is currently in detention to be set for deportation. She has lived in the United States for over 25 years and we were finally in the process for obtaining a greencard when she became eligible and in good faith, attended a USCIS appointment that was NOT signaled for deportation and was detained." Democratic Pennsylvania state Representative Ismail Smith-Wade-El, who represents Lancaster, wrote on Facebook: "Help the Soliman family stay together! When Ester, who came here legally, lost her husband, her immigration status was thrown into limbo. We all talk a lot about what's being done across the country, about keeping our neighbors here and families together. This is the next easiest way you can do that. Please help if you can." The GoFundMe reads: "This is a devastating situation on many levels, and the family needs all the support and assistance we can muster as they continue to navigate this heartbreaking and complex situation. The Soliman family are going to be working with a specialized immigration attorney to fight for Ester's freedom." Advocacy group Lancaster County's Asian American Pacific Islander wrote on Facebook: "Our neighbor, friend, and community member, Ester Soliman, has been detained by ICE. Their family is fighting to bring her home, and they need our collective support. Read her story, share this post, donate if you are able, and stand together." What Happens Next? The next steps in Soliman-Ramos' case have not been made public. Federal authorities have not commented on the case. Update 8/8/25 3:45 p.m. ET: This article was updated with comment from McLaughlin and additional information. Update 8/8/25 4:20 p.m. ET: This article was updated with additional information. Read more Trump admin proposes change for some green card applicants DACA recipient dad in US since age 10 hoping for green card detained by ICE Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Boston Globe. He is a graduate of Emerson College. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.stanton@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Writers Page Andrew Stanton FOLLOW Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. Andrew joined Newsweek in 2021 from The Boston Globe. He is a graduate of Emerson College. You can get in touch with Andrew by emailing a.stanton@newsweek.com. Languages: English. Andrew Stanton is a Newsweek weekend reporter based in Maine. His role is reporting on U.S. politics and social issues. ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi