Green-Card Applicants Face Major Change After Court Ruling
Politics Supreme Court Court Department of Homeland Security Immigration Department of Justice Citizenship USCIS U.S. Congress Washington D.C. Green Card Lawsuit Green-Card Applicants Face Major Change After Court Ruling Published Aug 08, 2025 at 1:40 PM EDT CLOSE X By Robert Charles Alexander is the Senior Crime and Court Reporter for Newsweek based in London. He formerly worked as a Political Correspondent for the Local Democracy Service of the BBC, and is a lawyer. He is also the acclaimed author of seven published books, ranging from biographies to mountaineering and architectural history. His first book, The Inventor of Stereo – The Life and Works of Alan Dower Blumlein was dramatized for BBC Radio 4 in August 2008, and is now being turned into a major new movie for Universal Pictures Films. He is currently working on his eighth, ninth and tenth books. You can get in touch with Robert by emailing r.alexnader@newsweek.com. Languages: English, French, German. Writers Page Robert Alexander Senior Crime & Court Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ A federal court has sided with the immigration advocates in a decision that could reshape how long EB-5 immigrant investors must keep their capital tied up—marking a potential win for foreign nationals navigating the U.S. green-card process. The case centered on whether EB-5 applicants must keep their investment "at risk" for longer than the standard two years. The court ruled that they do not, affirming a current U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and rejecting a legal challenge from a trade group representing regional investment centers. Why It Matters The recent federal court decision regarding the EB-5 immigrant investor program marked a significant shift for foreign nationals seeking permanent residency in the United States. The U.S. already opens the door to wealthy non-U.S. citizens who want residency through what is known as an EB-5 visa. But that program, launched in 1990, has long been cited for potential abuse. The ruling could reduce the financial burden and uncertainty for EB-5 visa applicants by clarifying the timeline for how long their investments must remain at-risk. The outcome sets a precedent that could influence thousands of current and future green-card applicants navigating the complexities of U.S. immigration policy. Legal advocacy organizations highlighted the decision as a win for immigrant investors, positioning the case as a touchstone in a broader debate over the balance of program integrity, fairness to individual investors, and economic development goals in the EB-5 program. A stock image shows a Permanent Resident green card on the American flag. A stock image shows a Permanent Resident green card on the American flag. Evgenia Parajanian/iStock via Getty Images What To Know A federal judge in Washington ruled in August 2025 that the EB-5 Reform and Integrity Act (RIA) of 2022 changed the timeline for how long immigrant investors participating in the EB-5 program must keep their investment "at risk" to qualify for lawful permanent residency. The court found that investors who made their investment after the RIA only need to sustain their capital for two years from the date the capital is placed at risk, not for an indeterminate period linked to later immigration milestones. The lawsuit, brought by Invest in the U.S.A. (IIUSA)—an association of EB-5 regional centers—challenged the interpretation of the RIA by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). The IIUSA argued that Congress intended to preserve the pre-existing requirement, which linked the investment period to the adjudication of conditional green card status, sometimes causing investors to have funds tied up for much longer. The American Immigrant Investor Alliance (AIIA), representing the interests of immigrant investors, responded with an amicus brief advocating for a two-year rule consistent with the text of the RIA. In her order, Judge Ana C. Reyes agreed with the government and AIIA, finding that the RIA altered the law's language governing the sustainment period. She stated: "[A]mong its core changes, the RIA altered the INA's language regarding how long investors under the EB-5 Immigrant Investor Program [EB-5 Program] must keep their money at risk to be eligible for an immigrant visa." This holding is considered a major win for EB-5 investors and undercuts the regional centers' argument that the new law did not change the status quo. Under the decision, EB-5 investments made after the RIA (post-March 2022) will be considered properly sustained if the capital remains at risk for two years from the commencement of the investment period. For earlier (pre-RIA) investors, the old rule remains: The sustainment period begins after obtaining conditional lawful permanent residency and is dependent on immigrant visa bulletin dates. The USCIS is now tasked with drafting new regulations to formally implement these requirements. The process will involve a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), opportunities for public comment, and issuance of final rules, which could take one to two years or more. While the current policy will remain in effect during rulemaking, the exact language of the new rules is yet unknown. What People Are Saying President Donld Trump, in a March 4 speech to a joint session of Congress: "For $5 million we will allow the most successful job-creating people from all over the world to buy a path to U.S. citizenship." Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, on February 25: "So the EB-5 program, was really, you lend some money, but it was all, it was full of nonsense, make believe, and fraud. And it was a way to get a green card that was low priced. So the President said rather than having this sort of ridiculous EB-5 program we're going to end the EB-5 program. We're going to replace it with the Trump Gold Card which is really a Green Card Gold so they'll be able to pay $5 million dollars to the U.S. government." What Happens Next The current USCIS rules on the EB-5 sustainment period remain effective for now, with two-year sustainment for post-RIA investments and the previous standards for earlier investors. USCIS will publish a proposed rule for public comment, followed by final regulations, a process that could extend into 2027. Advocacy organizations have indicated they will continue to participate in this regulatory process and may pursue further legislative reforms in Congress. Is This Article Trustworthy? Is This Article Trustworthy? Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Newsweek is committed to journalism that is factual and fair We value your input and encourage you to rate this article. Slide Circle to Vote Reader Avg. No Moderately Yes VOTE Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Robert Charles Alexander is the Senior Crime and Court Reporter for Newsweek based in London. He formerly worked as a Political Correspondent for the Local Democracy Service of the BBC, and is a lawyer. He is also the acclaimed author of seven published books, ranging from biographies to mountaineering and architectural history. His first book, The Inventor of Stereo – The Life and Works of Alan Dower Blumlein was dramatized for BBC Radio 4 in August 2008, and is now being turned into a major new movie for Universal Pictures Films. He is currently working on his eighth, ninth and tenth books. You can get in touch with Robert by emailing r.alexnader@newsweek.com. Languages: English, French, German. Writers Page Robert Alexander FOLLOW Share on TwitterShare on LinkedIn Robert Charles Alexander is the Senior Crime and Court Reporter for Newsweek based in London. He formerly worked as a Political Correspondent for the Local Democracy Service of the BBC, and is a lawyer. He is also the acclaimed author of seven published books, ranging from biographies to mountaineering and architectural history. His first book, The Inventor of Stereo – The Life and Works of Alan Dower Blumlein was dramatized for BBC Radio 4 in August 2008, and is now being turned into a major new movie for Universal Pictures Films. He is currently working on his eighth, ninth and tenth books. You can get in touch with Robert by emailing r.alexnader@newsweek.com. Languages: English, French, German. Robert Charles Alexander is the Senior Crime and Court Reporter for Newsweek based in London. He formerly worked as a ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi