Nordstrom Recalls Jewelry Nationwide Over Toxic Metal Fears
U.S. Product recall Nordstrom Nordstrom Recalls Jewelry Nationwide Over Toxic Metal Fears Published Aug 08, 2025 at 1:38 PM EDT CLOSE X By Daniel Orton is an editor on the live news team at Newsweek, based in London, U.K. He was previously a video news editor at the company between 2017 and 2019, before spending several years as a senior video journalist on the social news team at The Wall Street Journal, where he primarily produced short-form and breaking-news videos for the Journal's X (Twitter) page, with a focus on business, finance and markets. He also produced longer videos for other platforms on a wide range of subjects, from the U.K. royal family's finances to the cost of tackling climate change. He has also worked for The London Evening Standard, Fox News and Bauer Media. Writers Page Daniel Orton Editor, Live News Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Hundreds of pieces of Monica Vinader jewelry sold at Nordstrom stores and online are being recalled after it was found they contain excess levels of cadmium—a toxic metal known to pose health risks, particularly to children. Newsweek has emailed Nordstrom for comment. Why It Matters Jewelry recalls involving hazardous metals have previously led to regulatory action and significant public concern about the quality and safety of products sold in leading U.S. retail outlets. Cadmium is a naturally occurring heavy metal often used in jewelry manufacturing due to its low melting point, resistance to corrosion, and ability to enhance the appearance of gold-tone finishes. However, its inclusion in consumer products has raised significant health concerns. When jewelry containing cadmium is worn regularly or mouthed—especially by children—it can leach into the skin or be ingested. Cadmium exposure can cause long-term health effects, including kidney, bone, and reproductive harm. L-R: Monica Vinader 14k Yellow Gold Mini Heart Chain Bracelet, 14k Yellow Gold Mini Heart Stud Earrings, 14k Yellow Gold Mini Heart Chain Necklace. L-R: Monica Vinader 14k Yellow Gold Mini Heart Chain Bracelet, 14k Yellow Gold Mini Heart Stud Earrings, 14k Yellow Gold Mini Heart Chain Necklace. Monica Vinader What To Know On August 7, Monica Vinader recalled about 300 units of its 14k Yellow Gold Mini Heart Chain Bracelets, Necklaces, and Stud Earrings, admitting the items may contain more than 100ppm of cadmium levels. In the United States, cadmium in children's jewelry is policed by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act. Since a wave of recalls in 2010, the agency has relied on case-by-case enforcement. There is still no federal numeric limit for cadmium in adult jewelry, so several states have stepped in. The Monica Vinader bracelet measures about 15.3-19 cm, the necklace about 41-46 cm and the earrings each measure about .35 cm x 0.4 cm x 0.1 mm, according to the CPSC. The items were manufactured in Thailand between October and November 2024 and sold by Monica Vinader and Nordstrom—both online and in physical stores—between November 2024 and May 2025, the U.K.-based jewelry maker said, at prices ranging from $250 to $350. No injuries or incidents have been reported, the CPSC said. What People Are Saying In a statement on its website Monica Vinader said: "Our commitment to exceptional quality and safety is at the core of everything we do. Out of an abundance of caution, we are voluntarily initiating a recall of certain products." What Happens Next Consumers are urged to immediately stop wearing the jewelry, keep it out of children's reach, and contact Monica Vinader for a prepaid return, which includes a choice of replacement jewelry or a refund. Nordstrom customers can also return the products directly to the retailer. Details on the recall and instructions are available on the Monica Vinader recall website. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Daniel Orton is an editor on the live news team at Newsweek, based in London, U.K. He was previously a video news editor at the company between 2017 and 2019, before spending several years as a senior video journalist on the social news team at The Wall Street Journal, where he primarily produced short-form and breaking-news videos for the Journal's X (Twitter) page, with a focus on business, finance and markets. He also produced longer videos for other platforms on a wide range of subjects, from the U.K. royal family's finances to the cost of tackling climate change. He has also worked for The London Evening Standard, Fox News and Bauer Media. Writers Page Daniel Orton Share on Twitter Daniel Orton is an editor on the live news team at Newsweek, based in London, U.K. He was previously a video news editor at the company between 2017 and 2019, before spending several years as a senior video journalist on the social news team at The Wall Street Journal, where he primarily produced short-form and breaking-news videos for the Journal's X (Twitter) page, with a focus on business, finance and markets. He also produced longer videos for other platforms on a wide range of subjects, from the U.K. royal family's finances to the cost of tackling climate change. He has also worked for The London Evening Standard, Fox News and Bauer Media. Daniel Orton is an editor on the live news team at Newsweek, based in London, U.K. He was previously a ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi