Bed Bath & Beyond Makes Comeback
U.S. Retail Donald Trump Tariffs Closures Layoffs nashville Tennessee Bed Bath & Beyond Makes Comeback Published Aug 08, 2025 at 1:24 PM EDT CLOSE X By Hugh Cameron is Newsweek U.S. news reporter based in London, U.K. with a focus on covering American economic and business news. Hugh joined Newsweek in 2024, having worked at Alliance News Ltd where he specialised in global and regional business developments, economic news, and market trends. He graduated from the University of Warwick with a bachelor's degree in politics in 2022, and from the University of Cambridge with a master's degree in international relations in 2023. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Hugh by emailing h.cameron@newsweek.com Writers Page Hugh Cameron U.S. News Reporter Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW supported by or underwritten Produced [by our journalists] with financial support from an organization or individual that did not approve or review the work. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Bed Bath & Beyond, the iconic American retail chain which filed for bankruptcy in 2023 and shuttered all of its stores, is preparing to mount a comeback. Once a household-name company, Bed Bath & Beyond operated over 1,000 stores at its peak, and has now returned under the name Bed Bath & Beyond Home. The first of its new locations will open on Friday in Nashville, Tennessee. Why It Matters Bed Bath & Beyond's return to the physical stage—after years of exclusively online operations—represents a rare resurrection in an increasingly challenging American retail environment. This year has been marked largely by consolidations, closures and layoffs in the sector. As well as the longer-term decline of the high street, prompted by a shift to e-commerce and declines in foot traffic, retailers are this year facing the prospect of tariffs impacting their bottom lines. What To Know Bed Bath & Beyond filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in April 2023 after years of financial struggles. In the filing, the company reported $5.2 billion in debt as well as $4.4 billion worth of assets. Bed Bath & Beyond secured $240 million in financing shortly after, enough to fund its operations through the Chapter 11 process, but soon began liquidating its remaining stores. In June 2023, its brand name and digital assets were purchased for $21.5 million, and the company was transitioned into an online-only retailer. Its downfall was cited by MAGA Republicans as an example of "go woke, go broke," given it had decided years prior to stop selling products made by MyPillow, whose founder and CEO, Mike Lindell, is a well-known supporter of Donald Trump. A Bed Bath & Beyond logo seen on a retail store front in Hagerstown, Maryland, on April 5, 2018. A Bed Bath & Beyond logo seen on a retail store front in Hagerstown, Maryland, on April 5, 2018. Kristoffer Tripplaar/Sipa via AP Images Bed Bath & Beyond is inaugurating its comeback with the grand opening of a new store in Nashville. The launch is being spearheaded by The Brand House Collective (formerly Kirkland's, Inc.), alongside Beyond Inc., which acquired the intellectual property rights to the Bed Bath & Beyond brand in 2023. "We're proud to reintroduce one of retail's most iconic names with the launch of Bed Bath & Beyond Home, beautifully reimagined for how families gather at home today," Amy Sullivan, CEO of The Brand House Collective, said in an announcement. Brand House Collective hailed the launch as "a reintroduction of one of retail's most iconic names—long known for great brands and trusted value." As part of the launch, the company said it will be honoring customers' old Bed Bath & Beyond coupons. Additionally, the first 25 customers to make a purchase at the new location will receive a free "Beyond Bed"— a "premium 10 [inch] memory foam queen size mattress, regularly valued at $226.99." What People Are Saying Sullivan, CEO of The Brand House Collective, said: "We're proud to reintroduce one of retail's most iconic names with the launch of Bed Bath & Beyond Home, beautifully reimagined for how families gather at home today." "This isn't just a store, it's a fresh start for a brand that means something special to so many families," she added. "With Bed Bath & Beyond Home we're delivering on our mission to offer great brands, for any budget, in every room. It's a powerful addition to our portfolio and a meaningful step forward in our transformation." What Happens Next? In June, The Brand House Collective said it planned to expand the Bed Bath & Beyond relaunch through "full-market conversions of existing Kirkland's Home stores." The company told Newsweek that it plans to open four additional locations in the Nashville Market this fall. "We will use our leanings from the market and the voice of the customer to guide future expansion strategies into 2026," it added. fairness meter fairness meter Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair. Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter. Click On Meter To Rate This Article Confirm your selection Comment on your rating Share Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Hugh Cameron is Newsweek U.S. news reporter based in London, U.K. with a focus on covering American economic and business news. Hugh joined Newsweek in 2024, having worked at Alliance News Ltd where he specialised in global and regional business developments, economic news, and market trends. He graduated from the University of Warwick with a bachelor's degree in politics in 2022, and from the University of Cambridge with a master's degree in international relations in 2023. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Hugh by emailing h.cameron@newsweek.com Writers Page Hugh Cameron FOLLOW Hugh Cameron is Newsweek U.S. news reporter based in London, U.K. with a focus on covering American economic and business news. Hugh joined Newsweek in 2024, having worked at Alliance News Ltd where he specialised in global and regional business developments, economic news, and market trends. He graduated from the University of Warwick with a bachelor's degree in politics in 2022, and from the University of Cambridge with a master's degree in international relations in 2023. Languages: English. You can get in touch with Hugh by emailing h.cameron@newsweek.com Hugh Cameron is Newsweek U.S. news reporter based in London, U.K. with a focus on covering American economic and business ... Read more The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi