NFL Analyst Defends Disgruntled Cowboys Star in Fiery Rant
NFL Dallas Cowboys NFL Analyst Defends Disgruntled Cowboys Star in Fiery Rant Published Aug 08, 2025 at 1:13 PM EDT CLOSE X By Kevin McCormick Contributing Sports Writer Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member FOLLOW news article Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Share Copy Link ✓ Link copied to clipboard! Listen Translate English (Original) Español 中国人 Français Deutsch Portuguese हिन्दी Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content. Read original Speed: 0.5xSpeed: 1xSpeed: 1.5xSpeed: 2x 🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur. ✖ Once again, the Dallas Cowboys find themselves caught up in off-field drama regarding the contract situation of a key player. As things continue to unravel, one analyst sounded off on Jerry Jones for how he's conducted business thus far. Earlier this year, Micah Parsons and Jones reportedly had talks about an extension for the All-Pro linebacker. Despite things almost being worked out at one point, it's slowly evolved into a worst-case scenario for the Cowboys. The front office has had little to no talks with Parsons' agent, resulting in a growing frustration that led to a stunning trade request last week. Although the Cowboys have no plans of moving on from the homegrown star, the end of this saga appears to be nowhere in sight. Also read: Insider Provides Discouraging Update on Cowboys Star Micah Parsons Nick Wright sounds off on Jerry Jones for handling of Micah Parsons Micah Parsons #11 of the Dallas Cowboys looks on during the joint practice against the Los Angeles Rams at Staybridge Suites Oxnard on August 5, 2025 in Oxnard, California. Micah Parsons #11 of the Dallas Cowboys looks on during the joint practice against the Los Angeles Rams at Staybridge Suites Oxnard on August 5, 2025 in Oxnard, California. Photo by Ric Tapia/Getty Images/Getty Images While on FS1's First Things First earlier this week, Nick Wright chimed in on the standoff between Parsons and the Cowboys. He went on a fiery rant about Jones, bashing him for trying to get things done without involving the necessary parties. "You can't say I came to a handshake agreement with a non-negotiating party," Wright said. "Micah is not the negotiating party for Micah Parsons. Jerry is the negotiating party for the Cowboys. It's not his business. It is outrageous to me for Jerry to spring on Micah a contract discussion. They get to wherever it seems okay, and then be like it's done we negotiated. He knows better than that." “You can’t say 'I came to a handshake agreement' with a non-negotiating party. Micah is not the negotiating party for Micah Parsons… It is outrageous to me for Jerry to spring on Micah a contract discussion… He knows better than that.”@getnickwright explains: pic.twitter.com/tp7NS1RdeW — First Things First (@FTFonFS1) August 6, 2025 Also read: Cowboys QB Makes Positive Statement About Micah Parsons Saga These bold tactics from the Cowboys are nothing new, as they had similar dragged-out affairs with Dak Prescott and CeeDee Lamb. That said, things with Parsons continue to move towards a point of no return. Earlier this week, it was reported that Parsons and the Cowboys' owner haven't spoken since he voiced his trade request. Since Micah Parsons issued his trade request, he has not spoken to Jerry Jones. https://t.co/ba0m1ixEh9 — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) August 5, 2025 Despite how things look at the moment, Jones doesn't seem to be worried about Parsons' future in Dallas. When recently talking about the defensive star, he had nothing but good things to say about him while hinting at him still being part of the Cowboys' future. "I think the world of Micah," Jones said after Tuesday's practice, via The Athletic. "He's one of the brightest people I've ever been around. He's very, very talented. Now, how we ultimately meld him in with our future is a challenge. I'm built for it and he's built for it." With the start of the regular season less than a month away, the Cowboys are running out of time to put this situation behind them before the 2025 campaign gets underway. For more Dallas Cowboys and NFL news, head over to Newsweek Sports. Request Reprint & Licensing Submit Correction View Editorial & AI Guidelines Top stories Redistricting Wars: Map Shows How Many Seats Could Change Before Midterms As Trump Floats New Census, How Many People Really Live in the US? Man Applying for Green Card Detained by ICE After Decades in US Three People Shot After Gunman Opens Fire Near Times Square About the writer Kevin McCormick FOLLOW The Debate U.K., France Recognize Palestine—Will it Matter? Newsweek Writers Debate By Newsweek Contributors VS A Palestinian State Is Important but No Substitute for Ending Atrocities By Alia Brahimi