Baby born from an embryo that had been stored for over 30 years
Health Actions Facebook Tweet Email Baby born from an embryo that had been stored for over 30 years According to MIT Technology Review, the embryo was created in 1994 — a time when IVF was a fairly new technology. Prev Next Shutterstock Baby holds its mother's hand. By: Taylor O'Bier Posted A baby was born on Saturday who had developed from an embryo that had been in storage for over 30 years, according to MIT Technology Review. An Ohio couple "adopted" the embryo from a woman who had it created in 1994 with her husband at the time and kept it in cryo storage ever since. According to MIT Technology Review, Linda Archerd, now 62, was able to create four embryos in 1994 — a time when IVF was a fairly new technology. One of those embryos went on to become her daughter, who is now 30 years old with a daughter of her own. However, Archerd's remaining three embryos were never used and remained in storage. MIT Technology Review said Archerd couldn't bring herself to get rid of them, and didn't want to donate them anonymously. RELATED STORY | Here's how a new executive order could expand IVF access Archerd learned about different agencies in the U.S. that offer "adoption" services for embryos, said MIT Technology Review. Most of them are religious because they believe an embryo is morally equivalent to a born human. Eventually, she came across a program that would match her with her religious, racial and nationality preferences for a couple to "adopt" her embryo, MIT Technology Review said. That's where the Pierces came in. The couple, who had been struggling to conceive for many years, matched with Archerd's embryo through the program and traveled to Tennessee for the successful embryo transfer. Archerd told MIT Technology Review she's excited to meet the newborn and already sees a resemblance. Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Health Health risks of ultraprocessed foods: What a new report reveals Justin Boggs Cat dies from plague in Colorado. Here's how to protect your pets Scripps News Group Americans get more than half their diet from ultra-processed foods, CDC confirms AP via Scripps News Group Join the 'Morning Rush' team every weekday at 7 a.m. ET About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.