Astronomer CEO resigns after viral video of embrace at Coldplay concert
Business Actions Facebook Tweet Email Astronomer CEO resigns after viral video of embrace at Coldplay concert Byron was seen on a Jumbotron with the company's head of human resources wrapped in each other's arms. The two quickly separated and attempted to hide their faces. Prev Next Chris Pizzello/Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP Chris Martin of Coldplay performs at the Rose Bowl, Saturday, Sept. 30, 2023, in Pasadena, Calif. By: Scripps News Group Posted and last updated Astronomer, a tech company, said on social media that CEO Andy Byron has resigned one day after he was placed on leave, after he and the company's head of human relations were reportedly seen on video intimately hugging at a Coldplay concert. The video of who appeared to be Byron and Kristin Cabot embracing at the concert at Gillette Stadium in Boston on Wednesday has gone wildly viral on social media. "As stated previously, Astronomer is committed to the values and culture that have guided us since our founding. Our leaders are expected to set the standard in both conduct and accountability, and recently, that standard was not met," Astronomer said in a Linkedin post. "Andy Byron has tendered his resignation, and the Board of Directors has accepted." The company said it will begin a search for a permanent CEO after elevating its chief product officer Pete DeJoy as its interim CEO. During the band's performance of “Jumbotron Song,” a camera panned around the audience and centered on Byron and Cabot wrapped in each other's arms. The two quickly separated and attempted to hide their faces, with the man ducking down after realizing they were on the big screen. RELATED STORY | Astronomer places CEO on leave after viral video of embrace at Coldplay concert “Whoa, look at these two,” Coldplay frontman Chris Martin joked. “Either they’re having an affair or they’re just very shy.” The moment gained quick traction on social media, and it wasn't long before the internet identified the pair and noted that Byron is married. It was also believed that another colleague from the company was standing next to the couple at the time, but Astronomer said those reports are false. The moment has since gone viral on social media, with some sports teams even recreating the scene during their own "Kiss Cam" promotions. Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Business 'I lost a lot of money': Michigan man loses thousands in recent job scam Scripps News Group OpenAI launches GPT-5, a potential barometer for whether AI hype is justified AP via Scripps News Group Businesses stare down a 'rough and bumpy road' of new tariff increases Maura Barrett About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.