Astronomer says it is investigating viral video of embrace at Coldplay concert
BusinessCompany News Actions Facebook Tweet Email Astronomer places CEO on leave after viral video of embrace at Coldplay concert "Astronomer is committed to the values and culture that have guided us since our founding. Our leaders are expected to set the standard in both conduct and accountability." Prev Next Rajanish Kakade/AP Chris Martin of Coldplay performs during Coldplay's Music Of The Spheres World Tour at D. Y. Patil Sports Stadium in Navi Mumbai, Saturday, Jan. 18, 2025. By: Scripps News Group Posted and last updated Astronomer, a tech company, said on social media it has placed CEO Andy Byron on leave and launched a formal investigation after he and the company's head of human relations were reportedly seen on video intimately hugging at a Coldplay concert. "Astronomer is committed to the values and culture that have guided us since our founding. Our leaders are expected to set the standard in both conduct and accountability," the company said on X. The video of who appeared to be Byron and Kristin Cabot embracing at the concert at Gillette Stadium in Boston on Wednesday has gone wildly viral on social media. During the band's performance of “Jumbotron Song,” a camera panned around the audience and centered on the duo wrapped in each other's arms. The two quickly separated and attempted to hide their faces, with the man ducking down after realizing they were on the big screen. “Whoa, look at these two,” Coldplay frontman Chris Martin joked. “Either they’re having an affair or they’re just very shy.” The moment gained quick traction on social media, and it wasn't long before the internet identified the pair and noted that Byron is married. It was also believed that another colleague from the company was standing next to the couple at the time, but Astronomer said those reports are false. Astronomer Cofounder and Chief Product Officer Pete Dejoy is now serving as the company's interim CEO. "We will share more details as appropriate in the coming days," Astronomer stated. Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Business 'I lost a lot of money': Michigan man loses thousands in recent job scam Scripps News Group OpenAI launches GPT-5, a potential barometer for whether AI hype is justified AP via Scripps News Group Businesses stare down a 'rough and bumpy road' of new tariff increases Maura Barrett Watch Scripps News on your favorite app or smart TV. About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app. About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app