Planned Parenthood goes to court to challenge Medicaid funding cuts
Health Actions Facebook Tweet Email Planned Parenthood goes to court to challenge Medicaid funding cuts A court hearing is set for Friday as Planned Parenthood seeks to reverse funding cuts that could jeopardize essential healthcare services for millions. Prev Next Planned Parenthood is suing the Trump administration over Medicaid funding cuts, arguing it could harm over one million patients and threaten 200 centers in 24 states. (Scripps News) By: Scripps News Group Posted A court hearing is scheduled for Friday in a lawsuit filed by Planned Parenthood against the Trump administration. The organization is suing the federal government over access to Medicare payments for abortions, cancer screenings, birth control, and more. The funding was cut in legislation signed into law on July 4. Planned Parenthood argues that the change will have severe adverse effects on the health and welfare of at least one million patients. It says that roughly 200 Planned Parenthood centers are at risk of closing in 24 states if the funding cuts take effect. The law gives states the ability to strip Medicaid funds from organizations that perform abortions. Medicaid rules stipulate that federal funds should not be spent on abortions. However, the organization provides other services for reproductive health. RELATED STORY | Judge temporarily blocks spending cuts affecting Planned Parenthood “This move is straight out of the Trump Administration’s playbook, and so it comes as no surprise. Nothing in this filing even addresses or disputes the harm to patients — it’s not hypothetical. We know what will happen if this provision is allowed to take effect again: People in need of basic care will be turned away, cancers will go undetected, and STIs will go untreated — all while our fragile public health system continues to crumble. President Trump and his allies in Congress simply don’t care," Planned Parenthood said in a statement. U.S. District Judge Indira Talwani issued a temporary restraining order earlier this month temporarily stopping the Trump administration from implementing the cuts. KFF says that 11% of reproductive age women covered by Medicaid who received family planning services got their care at a Planned Parenthood clinic. Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Health Health risks of ultraprocessed foods: What a new report reveals Justin Boggs Cat dies from plague in Colorado. Here's how to protect your pets Scripps News Group Americans get more than half their diet from ultra-processed foods, CDC confirms AP via Scripps News Group Join the 'Morning Rush' team every weekday at 7 a.m. ET About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.