Trump signs law regulating fentanyl as a Schedule I drug
Health Actions Facebook Tweet Email Trump signs law regulating fentanyl as a Schedule I drug, bringing harsher penalties The new law also classifies fentanyl-related and copycat drugs as Schedule I. It will not apply to fentanyl used for medical purposes. Prev Next President Donald Trump signed a bill Wednesday meant to address the flow of fentanyl into the U.S. by enacting harsher penalties for possession. (Scripps News) By: Scripps News Group Posted President Donald Trump signed a bill Wednesday meant to address the flow of fentanyl into the U.S. by enacting harsher penalties for possession. The new law, which was circulated as the Halt All Lethal Trafficking of Fentanyl Act, permanently sets fentanyl as a Schedule I controlled substance, which will bring steeper sentences against those found to possess it. "We’ll be getting the drug dealers, pushers and peddlers off our streets," President Trump promised at a signing ceremony on Wednesday, where he appeared with lawmakers who supported the bill and families of victims who have died because of fentanyl. "We take a historic step toward justice for every family touched by the fentanyl scourge," he said. The new law also classifies fentanyl-related and copycat drugs as Schedule I. It will not apply to fentanyl used for medical purposes. Then-candidate Trump campaigned on the risks of allowing fentanyl into the U.S., including as a factor that contributed to illegal border crossings and threats to U.S. national security. When he took office, President Trump cited the risks from fentanyl as justification for tariffs on Canadian and Chinese goods. RELATED STORY | What we learned from examining more than 450 cases involving fentanyl and young children Nearly 17,000 people under the age of 34 died from fentanyl and other a drug overdoses last year, according to the Centers for Disease Controls and Prevention. Over the years fentanyl has also caused hundreds of fatal and nearly-fatal cases nationwide involving the poisoning of babies, toddlers and young children. Scripps News has compiled more than 460 cases of reported child opioid poisoning incidents from nearly every state in the U.S. from 2018 to 2025 – a total that is almost certainly an undercount. That tally includes more than 260 deaths. WATCH MORE | Poisoned: Fentanyl's child victims Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Health Health risks of ultraprocessed foods: What a new report reveals Justin Boggs Cat dies from plague in Colorado. Here's how to protect your pets Scripps News Group Americans get more than half their diet from ultra-processed foods, CDC confirms AP via Scripps News Group Join the 'Morning Rush' team every weekday at 7 a.m. ET About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.