Nicotine poisonings soar in toddlers, babies as pouch products gain popularity
Health Actions Facebook Tweet Email Nicotine poisonings soar in toddlers and babies as pouch products gain popularity Nicotine pouch ingestion is more likely to be associated with serious medical outcomes and medical admission than other formulations combined, the researchers said. Prev Next Nicotine pouches aren't just growing in popularity — they're also growing in dangers for children, according to a new study published Monday in the journal Pediatrics. By: Scripps News Group Posted and last updated Nicotine pouches aren't just growing in popularity — they're also growing in dangers for children, according to a new study published Monday in the journal Pediatrics. The research examined cases of children under 6 who accidentally ingested nicotine through products like vapes, gums and lozenges. Most cases of nicotine poisoning that were examined in the study involved children under the age of 2 at home, according to the researchers. RELATED STORY | FDA approves sales and marketing for Zyn nicotine pouches While most types of nicotine exposures decreased after 2016, poisonings from nicotine pouches surged by more than 760% between 2020 and 2023. Nicotine pouch ingestion is more likely to be associated with serious medical outcomes and medical admission than other formulations combined, the researchers said. SCRIPPS NEWS INVESTIGATES | Fentanyl's child victims The pouches, which users temporarily place between their lip and gum, have grown increasingly popular with teens and young adults. According to the CDC, they've become the second-most-used nicotine product among young people. Zyn, the only nicotine pouch authorized by the FDA, tells Scripps News that the agency noted that its packaging is designed to be child-resistant. It added that 39% of its users are between the ages of 30 and 39, while 31% are aged 40 to 49 — with the remainder being 21-29 and 50 and over. This story was reported on-air by a journalist and has been converted to this platform with the assistance of AI. Our editorial team verifies all reporting on all platforms for fairness and accuracy. Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Health Health risks of ultraprocessed foods: What a new report reveals Justin Boggs Cat dies from plague in Colorado. Here's how to protect your pets Scripps News Group Americans get more than half their diet from ultra-processed foods, CDC confirms AP via Scripps News Group Join the 'Morning Rush' team every weekday at 7 a.m. ET About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.