Why popular TikTok skincare trends could harm your skin
Health Actions Facebook Tweet Email Why popular TikTok skincare trends could harm your skin Experts say teens need to keep their skincare routines simple and read labels for overlapping ingredients that can increase the risk of irritation. Prev Next This is why it's important to ignore some popular TikTok skincare trends that may risk irritation. (Scripps News Group) By: Scripps News Group Posted Researchers have found that TikTok skincare trends can harm teenagers, putting them at greater risk of skin irritation and allergies. The study was done out of Northwestern University and it looked at popular TikTok videos mad by girls between 7 and 18 years of age. IN RELATED NEWS | You should wear sunscreen even if you have darker skin. Here's why Researchers found the video creators used up to a dozen different products in their daily skincare routines. Many products, however, have ingredients that can cause sun sensitivity, redness and allergic reactions. They're warning parents to be careful of combining too many products because it how they interact can cause complications. Experts say teens need to keep their skincare routines simple and read labels for overlapping ingredients that can increase the risk of irritation. IN CASE YOU MISSED IT | Kevin Jonas opens up about skin cancer removal. Here’s how to check your skin Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Health Health risks of ultraprocessed foods: What a new report reveals Justin Boggs Cat dies from plague in Colorado. Here's how to protect your pets Scripps News Group Americans get more than half their diet from ultra-processed foods, CDC confirms AP via Scripps News Group Join the 'Morning Rush' team every weekday at 7 a.m. ET About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.