FDA approves Moderna's COVID vaccine for children as young as 6 months old
Health Actions Facebook Tweet Email FDA approves Moderna's COVID vaccine for children as young as 6 months old It's expected to be available in the U.S. for the upcoming respiratory virus season that typically begins in fall and winter. Prev Next Tatan Syuflana/AP A health worker prepares a COVID-19 vaccine. By: Scripps News Group Posted Younger children will now have access to a COVID-19 vaccine — but only if they're considered at higher risk. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved "Spikevax," Moderna's vaccine for children aged 6 months to 11 years old. The vaccine was previously only available to children through emergency use authorization after approval in Jan. 2022. Approval was expanded to people 12 years and older last year. RELATED STORY | Doctors and public health organizations sue US health officials over COVID-19 vaccine policy change The new approval makes the vaccine available to children who are at increased risk for the disease, per the new guidelines set by the FDA in May. It's expected to be available in the U.S. for the upcoming respiratory virus season that typically begins in fall and winter. This story was reported on-air by a journalist and has been converted to this platform with the assistance of AI. Our editorial team verifies all reporting on all platforms for fairness and accuracy. Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Health Health risks of ultraprocessed foods: What a new report reveals Justin Boggs Cat dies from plague in Colorado. Here's how to protect your pets Scripps News Group Americans get more than half their diet from ultra-processed foods, CDC confirms AP via Scripps News Group Join the 'Morning Rush' team every weekday at 7 a.m. ET About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.