Burnley sign Broja from Chelsea
Burnley sign Broja from Chelsea Image source, Getty Images Image caption, Armando Broja has won 27 caps for Albania, scoring five goals Steve Sutcliffe BBC Sport journalist Published 8 August 2025 198 Comments Burnley have completed the signing of Armando Broja from Chelsea for an undisclosed fee believed to be worth up to £20m. The Albania international striker has agreed a five-year contract at Turf Moor and becomes the second player this week to make the move from Stamford Bridge with Lesley Ugochukwu, also having made the switch to Lancashire. "It's a really positive time to be joining this club ahead of the start of the new Premier League season. I can't wait to get going," said Broja. "I'm feeling good, I'm ready and I'm excited about the challenge of playing for this club. "I can already feel the support from the Burnley fans. I can tell you all that I will be giving my all every time I pull on the famous Claret shirt." Chelsea's £250m of academy sales in three years Published 1 day ago Colwill set to miss most of season after surgery Published 2 days ago Chelsea in talks to sign Man Utd winger Garnacho Published 2 days ago The 23-year-old first played for Chelsea in 2020 and made 38 appearances for the Blues in all competitions. However, he struggled for regular first-team football and has spent time on loan at Vitesse Arnhem, Southampton, Fulham and Everton in recent seasons. Broja becomes Burnley's ninth signing of the summer and joins the Clarets squad prior to this weekend's home friendly against Lazio. Scott Parker's side begin their Premier League campaign on Saturday, 16 August when they travel to Tottenham (15:00 BST). Related topics Chelsea Burnley Premier League Football Transfers Football More on this story Latest Burnley news, analysis and fan views Get Burnley news sent straight to your phone Published 8 June 2023 Comments can not be loaded To load Comments you need to enable JavaScript in your browser View comments | 198