HHS moves to restrict undocumented immigrants' health care, Head Start access
PoliticsImmigration Actions Facebook Tweet Email HHS moves to restrict undocumented immigrants' health care, Head Start access A new HHS directive reverses decades-old interpretation of a 1996 law, restricting undocumented immigrants' health care services. Prev Next A new HHS directive reverses decades-old interpretation of 1996 law, restricting undocumented immigrants' health care services. (Scripps News) By: Scripps News Group Posted The Department of Health and Human Services is cutting undocumented immigrants' access to several health care programs. The move could potentially affect tens of millions of people each year. Undocumented immigrants will no longer have access to Head Start or the Community Health Center program. Head Start provides education and health care assistance to children. The change alters a three-decade interpretation of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRWORA), issued during the Clinton administration. RELATED STORY | Mahmoud Khalil seeks $20M from Trump administration for false imprisonment "The law includes provisions that would deny most forms of public assistance to most legal immigrants for five years or until they attain citizenship," HHS said in 1998. "President Clinton has said that legal immigrants who fall on hard times through no fault of their own and need help should get it, although their sponsors should take additional responsibility for them." The law was meant to transition Americans off welfare programs into work. "For too long, the government has diverted hardworking Americans’ tax dollars to incentivize illegal immigration," said HHS Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. "Today's action changes that—it restores integrity to federal social programs, enforces the rule of law, and protects vital resources for the American people." Federal law still requires hospitals to treat any patient suffering a medical emergency, regardless of their immigration status. RELATED STORY | Supreme Court blocks Florida immigration law aimed at people in the US illegally Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Politics What a federal lawsuit reveals about the inner workings of Alligator Alcatraz Scripps News Group Dean Cain, former TV Superman, will be sworn in as honorary ICE officer AP via Scripps News Group Trump orders colleges to prove they don't consider race in admissions AP via Scripps News Group Watch Scripps News on your favorite app or smart TV. About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app.