McDonald's snack wraps return to the menu after nearly a decade-long hiatus
BusinessCompany News Actions Facebook Tweet Email McDonald's snack wraps return to the menu after nearly a decade-long hiatus The return of the snack wraps was a result of years of customer demand, the company said. Prev Next McDonald's via CNN Newsource McDonald's snack wraps. By: Scripps News Group Posted McDonald's officially returned its snack wraps to their rightful place on the menu Thursday. The return of the snack wraps was a result of years of customer demand, the company said. According to multiple reports, McDonald's removed the item from U.S. restaurants about nine years ago because they were time-consuming to prepare and didn't meet sales expectations. The original version featured a crispy chicken tender wrapped with shredded lettuce, cheese and ranch sauce in a tortilla. There was also a honey mustard option. The newly released version is basically the same, but has a ranch sauce option and a spicy pepper sauce option. It's the same spicy pepper sauce the company launched earlier in the week to go on some of its breakfast menu items. RELATED STORY | McDonald's adds spicy twist to classic McMuffin sandwiches nationwide Copyright 2025 Scripps Media, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Most Recent Detroit safety Morice Norris is stable & has feeling in all extremities WXYZ Web Team Breaking barriers: Jen Pawol becomes first female umpire in MLB history Justin Boggs Ancient 'junk' DNA revealed as key players in human genome regulation Justin Boggs Business 'I lost a lot of money': Michigan man loses thousands in recent job scam Scripps News Group OpenAI launches GPT-5, a potential barometer for whether AI hype is justified AP via Scripps News Group Businesses stare down a 'rough and bumpy road' of new tariff increases Maura Barrett Watch Scripps News on your favorite app or smart TV. About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app. About Scripps News Download the Scripps News app