Wembley investigating claims people were smuggled into Oasis gig without tickets
Wembley investigating claims people were smuggled into Oasis gig without tickets According to reports, up to 200 people paid £350 each to be smuggled into the stadium through a disabled entrance. Saturday 9 August 2025 09:11, UK Image: Liam and Noel Gallagher on stage for the first Wembley night of the Oasis reunion tour. Pic: Lewis Evans Why you can trust Sky News Wembley Stadium is investigating claims up to 200 people were able to sneak into its Oasis concerts without tickets. Oasis played the iconic London venue on five nights between 25 July and 3 August as part of their Live 25 reunion tour. Tickets sold out in hours after the band announced they would be reuniting 16 years after their dramatic split in 2009. Huge demand saw the final cost of attending one of the gigs surge, sparking controversy over dynamic pricing and a lack of transparency. But according to reports in The Sun, some people paid £350 each to be smuggled into the stadium through a disabled entrance across all five shows. They allegedly used copies of the same ticket to get through security, who handed them wristbands giving them access to the VIP area in front of the stage. Sky News understands that six people were arrested for suspected unauthorised entry across the five shows and 24 were ejected on the same grounds. Read more: What it was like to see Oasis reunited Chris Hemsworth on Alzheimer's risk Image: The first Wembley night of the Oasis reunion tour. Pic: Harriet Bols One of those who sneaked in told the newspaper: "We were given our tickets, which were all the same, and a woman drew a shape on our hands. "We were told to go to the disabled door at entrance M, even though our tickets said entrance F. "We showed our stamped hands to the person on the door, they scanned the tickets, even though we all had the same one, and let us in. "Another member of staff then handed us a golden circle wristband and that was it. There were zero security searches. We just walked straight in." Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free A Wembley Stadium spokesperson told Sky News in a statement: "Entering Wembley Stadium without a ticket is a serious offence and we are investigating these allegations. "If they are substantiated, we will refer our evidence to the police." Oasis will return to Wembley for two nights on 27 and 28 September. They are still to play in several other venues throughout the UK - including Edinburgh's Murrayfield Stadium and Dublin's Croke Park - before heading to Japan, South Korea, South America, Australia, and North America later this year. The band expressed their condolences after one fan, 45-year-old Lee Claydon, died at one of the Wembley gigs. Related Topics Oasis