It's been four years since a US president met Putin - and Trump will have a lot of ice to break
Analysis Analysis It's been four years since a US president met Putin - and Trump will have a lot of ice to break A US-Russia summit in Alaska is geography as metaphor and message. Choosing this location signals strategic parity - with both leaders face to face in a place where their interests literally meet. David Blevins US correspondent @skydavidblevins Saturday 9 August 2025 04:07, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 1:33 Can Trump end the Ukraine war? Why you can trust Sky News Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin will meet where their countries brush shoulders. But why Alaska and why now? A US-Russia summit in Alaska is geography as metaphor and message. Alaska physically bridges both countries across the polar expanse. Follow latest: Ukraine war live updates Datawrapper This content is provided by Datawrapper, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Datawrapper cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Datawrapper cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Datawrapper cookies for this session only. Enable Cookies Allow Cookies Once Choosing this location signals strategic parity - the US and Russian leaders face to face in a place where their interests literally meet. Alaska has surged in geopolitical importance due to its untapped fossil fuels. More on Donald Trump Donald Trump reveals when - and where - he will meet Putin for Ukraine talks Trump's approach to peacemaking is a choice between waging war or doing business US doubles reward for Venezuelan President Maduro's arrest to $50m Related Topics: Donald Trump Russia Ukraine United States Vladimir Putin Volodymyr Zelenskyy Trump has aggressively pushed for more control in the Arctic, plans for Greenland and oil access. Holding talks there centres the conversation where global energy and territorial stakes are high, and the US president thrives on spectacle. Image: Reuters file pic A dramatic summit in the rugged frontier of Alaska plays into his flair for the theatrical. It is brand Trump - a stage that frames him as bold, unorthodox and in command. It was 2021 when a US president last came face-to-face with a Russian president. The leaders of the two countries haven't met since Russia invaded Ukraine. Image: Pic: AP But Trump is in touch with all sides - Russia, Ukraine and European leaders - and says they all, including Putin, want "to see peace". He's even talking up the potential shape of any deal and how it might involve the "swapping of territory". Volodymyr Zelenskyy has repeatedly insisted he will not concede territory annexed by Russia. Moscow has sent the White House a list of demands in return for a ceasefire. Read more: Russia reacts to Trump talks plan JD Vance raises concerns about free speech in UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 0:23 'I'm not against meeting Zelenskyy' Trump is attempting to secure buy-in from Zelenskyy and other European leaders. He styles himself as "peacemaker-in-chief" and claims credit for ending six wars since he returned to office 200 days ago. There's much ice to break if he's to secure a coveted seventh one in Alaska. Related Topics Donald Trump Russia Ukraine United States Vladimir Putin Volodymyr Zelenskyy