What are BTecs and how are they graded
What are BTecs and how are they graded? 2 days ago Share Save Share Save Getty Images Hundreds of thousands of students will soon know what grades they achieved in their BTecs. Results day is approaching for lots of students, but some BTec results have already been published, depending on the course. The final BTec national results, which combine all unit grades, are often released at the same time as A-level results day - which this year is Thursday 14 August. Level three BTec qualifications are A-level equivalents, aimed at people interested in working in a particular industry, such as engineering, hospitality or childcare. What are BTec Firsts and BTec Nationals? A BTec, which stands for the Business and Technology Education Council, is a practical qualification. Courses are assessed through exams, regular coursework and projects, and sometimes placements. BTec Firsts are Level 2 qualifications, meaning they are equivalent to GCSEs. Students often take a mixture of the two. They can be helpful for people trying to get into further education colleges. BTec Nationals are Level 3 qualifications, so can be taken alongside or instead of A-levels. They are studied over one or two years. Research suggests one in four students use them as a route into university, while others gain occupation-specific skills and go straight into employment. How are BTecs graded? BTecs are graded on a scale: Starred Distinction/Distinction Star (D*) Distinction (D) Merit (M) Pass (P) Some BTecs are worth two or three A-levels. Students normally receive their results on the same days as A-level and GCSE students, but some receive them before this. Who takes BTecs? There are approximately 280,000 students studying at least one Level 3 applied general qualification, according to the Sixth Form College Association. A further 200,000 are estimated to be doing BTec Firsts and other BTec qualifications. Health and social care and applied science are among the most popular BTecs. Other subjects include construction, electrical engineering and art and design. BTec Nationals can be sat by any age group. In fact, most are taken by those over the age of 22 as they develop practical career skills. They are particularly popular among white working class students, according to research by the Social Market Foundation think tank. Other vocational courses are available in the UK, including National Vocational Qualifications (NVQs), TechBacs, Cambridge Technicals and Scottish Vocational Qualifications (SVQs). PA Media BTec results normally come out on the same days as A-level and GCSE results How are BTecs changing? In 2020, there were more than 12,000 vocational qualifications at all levels, offered by more than 150 awarding bodies, according to Ofqual, which oversees qualifications in England. Plans by former Conservative governments to streamline post-16 education had meant many BTecs and other Level 3 courses were due to lose their funding, to make way for T-levels. However, the Labour government paused and reviewed the plans, and has since announced that 157 qualifications will no longer be scrapped as planned. They include "key courses" in "important sectors", the DfE said, such as agriculture, engineering, manufacturing and health and social care. Some have had funding confirmed until July 2026 and others until July 2027. The government also confirmed that more than 200 qualifications with "with low or no enrolments" would still have funding withdrawn from 1 August 2025. Sarah Hannafin, head of policy at school leaders' union NAHT, said that "for A-levels and T-levels to be the only two qualification pathways post-16 would have failed to meet the needs and ambitions of many students". The government has confirmed the rollout of T-levels will continue. In the first three years, T-levels have faced delays, high dropout rates and an exam board being fined £300,000 over "major failings" with the papers. What are T-levels and what are the grades worth? What is an apprenticeship and how much are apprentices paid? BTec Nationals Schools Vocational education Related School leaders call for pause over BTEC scrapping Students face uncertainty in BTec funding 'mess' Cash prizes and free rent: Uni clearing offers 'inappropriate' More from the BBC 2 days ago What are T-levels and what are the grades worth? T-levels are equivalent to three A-levels, and focus on practical rather than academic subjects. 2 days ago 2 days ago School to be rebuilt years after finding RAAC Education chiefs hope the rebuild will ease pressure on school places in the area. 2 days ago 3 days ago Temporary classrooms planned for first school intake The permanent school building will not be ready in time for the first pupil intake next September. 3 days ago 5 days ago Burke family confront NI education official over transgender guidance Members of the family attempted to speak to Mervyn Storey over claims that the Education Authority was "promoting gender ideology". 5 days ago 5 days ago Number of term-time holiday fines double in county The fines are given when a child registers 10 unauthorised half-day school absences, a council says. 5 days ago