UK, Australia, Germany, Italy and New Zealand condemn Israel's plan for new operation in Gaza
UK joins four countries in condemning Israel's plan for new operation in Gaza The plan will "endanger the lives of hostages" and "risk violating international humanitarian law", a joint statement says. Saturday 9 August 2025 13:53, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:33 Inside plane dropping aid over Gaza Why you can trust Sky News The UK and four allies have criticised Israel's decision to launch a new large-scale military operation in Gaza - warning it will "aggravate the catastrophic humanitarian situation" in the territory. The foreign ministers of Britain, Australia, Germany, Italy, France, Canada, Austria, Norway, and New Zealand said in a joint statement that the offensive will "endanger the lives of hostages" and "risk violating international humanitarian law". It comes a day after Israel's security cabinet approved an operation to take military control of Gaza City - and concluded a full takeover of the enclave is required to end the conflict. It marks another escalation in the war in Gaza, sparked by the Hamas attack of 7 October 2023. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:20 Can Netanyahu defeat Hamas ideology? In their joint statement, the UK and its allies said they "strongly reject" the decision, adding: "It will endanger the lives of the hostages and further risk the mass displacement of civilians. "The plans that the government of Israel has announced risk violating international humanitarian law. Any attempts at annexation or of settlement extension violate international law." The countries also called for a permanent ceasefire as "the worst-case scenario of famine is unfolding in Gaza". It comes as Sky News analysis has found that airdrops of aid are making little difference to Gaza's hunger crisis, and pose serious risks to the population - with a father-of-two killed by a falling package. Image: A Palestinian boy after an Israeli strike on a house in Gaza City on Friday. Pic: Reuters Meanwhile, France, Canada, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and the United Nations all criticised Israel's plan for a full occupation of Gaza. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu "expressed his disappointment" with German Chancellor Friedrich Merz's in phone call on Friday after Berlin decided it would stop selling arms to Israel. In a post on X, the Israeli prime minister's office added: "Instead of supporting Israel's just war against Hamas, which carried out the most horrific attack against the Jewish people since the Holocaust, Germany is rewarding Hamas terrorism by embargoing arms to Israel." Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:33 Inside plane dropping aid over Gaza US ambassador hits out at Starmer Earlier on Friday, the US Ambassador to Israel, Mike Huckabee, criticised Sir Keir Starmer after he said Israel's decision to "escalate its offensive" in Gaza is "wrong". Mr Huckabee wrote on X: "So Israel is expected to surrender to Hamas & feed them even though Israeli hostages are being starved? Did UK surrender to Nazis and drop food to them? Ever heard of Dresden, PM Starmer? That wasn't food you dropped. If you had been PM then UK would be speaking German!" Read more: Analysis: Israel likely faces an impossible task How life and colour has been stripped from Gaza X This content is provided by X, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable X cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to X cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow X cookies for this session only. Enable Cookies Allow Cookies Once In another post around an hour later Mr Huckabee wrote: "How much food has Starmer and the UK sent to Gaza? "@IsraeliPM has already sent 2 MILLION TONS into Gaza & none of it even getting to hostages." Sir Keir has pledged to recognise a Palestinian state in September unless the Israeli government meets a series of conditions towards ending the war in Gaza. The UK and its allies criticised Israel as US President JD Vance and UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy met at Chevening House in Kent on Friday. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 1:22 Lammy-Vance bromance: Will it last? Mr Vance described a "disagreement" about how the US and UK could achieve their "common objectives" in the Middle East, and said the Trump administration had "no plans to recognise a Palestinian state". He said: "I don't know what it would mean to really recognise a Palestinian state given the lack of functional government there." Mr Vance added: "There's a lot of common objectives here. There is some, I think, disagreement about how exactly to accomplish those common objectives, but look, it's a tough situation." The UN Security Council will meet on Saturday to discuss the situation in the Middle East. Ambassador Riyad Mansour, permanent observer of the State of Palestine to the United Nations, said earlier on Friday that a number of countries would be requesting a meeting of the UN Security Council on Israel's plans.