Trump reveals when - and where - he will meet Putin for Ukraine talks
Donald Trump reveals when - and where - he will meet Putin for Ukraine talks The two presidents are expected to discuss the conflict in Ukraine - but the war-torn country's leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy will not be at the meeting. Saturday 9 August 2025 06:14, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 1:16 The US president said some 'complicated' swapping of territory will be part of negotiations to end the war in Ukraine. Why you can trust Sky News Donald Trump has announced his "highly anticipated" meeting with Vladimir Putin will take place on Friday in the US state of Alaska. The two presidents are expected to discuss the war in Ukraine - with the talks potentially leading to a breakthrough in Mr Trump's effort to end the conflict. But there's no guarantee it will stop the fighting since Moscow and Kyiv remain far apart on their conditions for peace. Earlier, the US president told reporters "we're getting very close to a deal" that would end the war. Mr Trump added there will be "some swapping of territories to the betterment of both sides". Follow latest: Ukraine war live updates Analysis: Trump will have a lot of ice to break David Blevins US correspondent @skydavidblevins Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin will meet where their countries brush shoulders. But why Alaska and why now? Alaska physically bridges both countries across the polar expanse. Choosing this location signals strategic parity - the US and Russian leaders face to face in a place where their interests literally meet. Holding talks there centres the conversation where global energy and territorial stakes are high, and the US president thrives on spectacle. Read David's full analysis here. The meeting between the two leaders will be the first US-Russia summit since 2021, when former US President Joe Biden met Mr Putin in Switzerland. Mr Trump wrote on Truth Social: "The highly anticipated meeting between myself, as President of the United States of America, and President Vladimir Putin, of Russia, will take place next Friday, August 15, 2025, in the Great State of Alaska. Further details to follow. Thank you for your attention to this matter!" The meeting was also confirmed by Kremlin aide Yury Ushakov, who said the leaders will "focus on discussing options for achieving a long-term peaceful resolution to the Ukrainian crisis". He added that the two presidents could meet in Russia in future and that an invitation has already been extended to Mr Trump. Datawrapper This content is provided by Datawrapper, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Datawrapper cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Datawrapper cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Datawrapper cookies for this session only. Enable Cookies Allow Cookies Once Yesterday, Mr Trump had told reporters at the White House that he couldn't announce where or when the meeting would take place but he would do so soon. He also suggested that his meeting with the Russian leader could come before any discussion involving Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. "We're going to have a meeting with Russia, start off with Russia. And we'll announce a location. I think the location will be a very popular one," Mr Trump said. The US president added: "President Putin, I believe, wants to see peace, and Zelenskyy wants to see peace ... in all fairness to President Zelenskyy, he's getting everything he needs to, assuming we get something done." Read more: Russia reacts to Trump talks plan JD Vance raises concerns about free speech in UK Image: Donald Trump, right, and Vladimir Putin at a summit in Vietnam in 2017. Pic: Reuters Territory to form part of talks Speaking about the role that territory will play in the peace talks, Mr Trump said: "You're looking at a territory that's been fought over for three-and-a-half years. A lot of Russians have died. A lot of Ukrainians have died. "So we're looking at that, but we're actually looking to get some back, and some swapping. "It's complicated, actually. Nothing is easy. It's very complicated. But we're going to get some back. "We're going to get some switched. There'll be some swapping of territories to the betterment of both." Analysts, including some close to the Kremlin, have suggested that Russia could offer to give up territory it controls outside of the four regions it claims to have annexed. Pressed on if this was the last chance to make a major peace deal, Mr Trump said: "I don't like using the term last chance ... when those guns start going off, it's awfully tough to get them to stop." Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 5:24 Trump says he will meet Putin Western officials 'to meet in UK' Meanwhile, senior officials from the US, Ukraine and several European countries are due to meet in the UK this weekend to try and reach common positions ahead of the Trump-Putin meeting, according to Axios. Ukraine and several NATO allies are reported to be privately concerned that Mr Trump might agree to Mr Putin's proposals for ending the war without taking their positions into consideration. Since his return to the White House in January, Mr Trump has moved to mend relations with Russia and sought to end the war - with public comments veering between admiration and sharp criticism of Mr Putin. In a sign of his growing frustration with Russia's refusal to halt its military offensive, Mr Trump had threatened to impose new sanctions and tariffs against Moscow - and countries that buy its exports - unless the Kremlin agreed to end the conflict. A deadline was set for yesterday, but it is unclear whether these sanctions are taking effect, or if they will be delayed or cancelled in light of the talks. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 0:23 'I'm not against meeting Zelenskyy' War grinds on ahead of talks The meeting has been arranged as Russia's bigger army is slowly advancing deeper into Ukraine at great cost in troops and armour while it relentlessly bombards Ukrainian cities. Ukrainian forces are locked in intense battles along the 620-mile frontline that snakes from northeast to southeast Ukraine. The Pokrovsk area of the eastern Donetsk region is taking the brunt of punishment as Russia seeks to break out into the neighbouring Dnipropetrovsk region. Related Topics Donald Trump Vladimir Putin