Friday night's anti-migrant protests in Norwich were peaceful - but anger is bubbling
Eyewitness Eyewitness Friday night's anti-migrant protests in Norwich were peaceful - but anger is bubbling The day had been dubbed "Abolish Asylum Day" with a call to action for protesters to come out across the county. Around 80 counter protesters also arrived on the scene. Jason Farrell Home editor @JasonFarrellSky Friday 8 August 2025 23:45, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 1:04 Sky's Jason Farrell spoke to both sides of the migration debate in Norfolk. Why you can trust Sky News Outside the Best Western Brook Hotel in Norwich around 300 anti-migrant protesters sang along to Sweet Caroline, Neil Diamond's song about good times never feeling so good, but that wasn't their message for the migrants living inside the hotel. In a city where average rents have increased faster than the rest of England, and hospital waiting times are some of the worst in the country, many who turned out complained about the cost of housing asylum seekers. Stuart, a Norfolk businessman holding a giant St George's flag, said: "I see my company paying north of a hundred thousand pounds a year in tax and the money is not going back into our system, back into our NHS, when it takes two million pounds a year to keep one hotel open." In a theme that we've seen in protests across the country, residents also spoke of their fears for women and girls. Image: The protest in Norwich Protester Karen Williams said: "I have seen with my own eyes school children being hassled from illegal males from this hotel. Being followed, asked for their phone numbers." A man who didn't want to be named added: "That hotel could be full of terrorists. We don't know where they're from, they're undocumented males, all of a certain age. We've been invaded." Many wore T-shirts with slogans saying they were not far-right. Although a large portion of the crowd cheered when the name Tommy Robinson was hailed from the stage. Read more: Who says what in the row over asylum hotels Image: One group holds signs and flags in Altrincham, Cheshire. Pic: PA The day had been dubbed "Abolish Asylum Day" with a call to action for protesters to come out across the country. Here, around 80 counter protesters also arrived on the scene and police used their vans and two lines of officers to create a green zone in the car park to separate the opposing groups. The hotel curtains were closed but no doubt the migrants inside could hear as on one side, a group determined to get rid of them, chanted, "whose streets, our streets", and sang Rule Britannia, while the other side's chants assured them: "Refugees are welcome here." Image: A group in Epping, Essex, where multiple anti-migrant demonstrations have taken place Counter protester Stuart said: "It's unfair that these people are going to be intimidated like that and I want to show that not everybody in the UK thinks this way." Hayley, holding a banner which read, "save our kids from fascists", said: "I live in this area, and I see these people every day and they do nothing wrong whatsoever. "They genuinely are very sweet people who don't deserve what's happening." Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Another counter protester, Cate, said: "They [migrants] are not who they are made out to be." "I would trust them any day - far more than I would those people," she added, nodding towards the anti-migrant protesters. Read more: MP mistakes rowing team for migrant boat First migrants detained under return deal with France Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update Tap here to follow Organisers on both sides said they came in peace, and peaceful it was. But there is a bubbling anger. The Brook Hotel was taken over by the Home Office nearly three years ago and protests here, that only began this summer, are seeing their numbers grow. Related Topics Migrant Crisis Norfolk