Former PCSO jailed for trying to make 3D printer gun
Former police community support officer jailed for trying to make 3D printer gun Former police community support officer Zoe Watts, 39, who was "obsessed with weapons" tried to make parts for a semi-automatic weapon at her home in Lincoln. Friday 8 August 2025 18:09, UK Image: Zoe Watts has been sentenced to eight years and six months in jail. Pic: Lincolnshire Police/PA Why you can trust Sky News A former police community support officer who was "obsessed with weapons" has been jailed after trying to make a gun using a 3D printer. Zoe Watts, 39, of St Helen's Avenue, Lincoln, has been jailed for eight years and six months after she was found with weapons, including knives and a crossbow, alongside parts for 3D printed guns during a raid on her home on 11 December, Lincolnshire Police said. She was also given a forfeiture and destruction order, and will be subject to a serious crime prevention order for five years following her release. Watts was sentenced on Friday at Lincoln Crown Court following a lengthy investigation that involved multiple departments. Judge Simon Hirst told Watts, who appeared at the hearing via video link from HMP Downview in Surrey, that he realised custody would be more difficult for her because of her neurodivergence, her previous police career and her transgender identity. The conviction and sentencing are the first of their kind in the UK for this type of offence, Lincolnshire Police said. She was arrested by armed officers last December, after she was pulled over while driving her car in Lincoln. Lincolnshire Police received information that Watts was buying illegal material online. Officers searched her house while she was away. They found an "Aladdin's cave" of weapons, police said. They also discovered a number of "worrying searches" online. Police said Watts had used Google to ask, "has anybody been killed by a 3D printed gun?" and was looking for ways to buy new weapons. Read more: Teenager found guilty of murder of schoolboy Boy, 4, dies after being hit by bus She told officers she was creating the weapons as toys before she was convicted earlier this year. Detective inspector Gemma Skipworth said: "This sends a clear message that if you're doing something wrong behind closed doors, it doesn't mean you're safe and can break the rules with impunity. "3D printers are becoming more and more popular, and people are naturally exploring what they can do with this technology." Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free She said downloading plans and using a machine to produce something like a firearm, means "you're breaking the rules" and if you are caught, you will face a lengthy jail sentence. "This case shows how committed my colleagues are to keeping the people of Lincolnshire safe and I'd like to say a huge thank you to everyone who worked on this case," Skipworth added.