Man jailed for raping and murdering ex-fiancee at luxury hotel
James Cartwright: Man jailed for raping and murdering ex-fiancee at luxury Surrey hotel James Cartwright attacked his former partner during the night, before phoning emergency services and claiming he had found her dead bedside him, the prosecution said. Friday 8 August 2025 17:20, UK Image: James Cartwright. Pic: Surrey Police/PA Why you can trust Sky News A man who raped and murdered his ex-fiancee at a luxury Surrey hotel has been jailed for life with a minimum term of 28 years. The body of Samantha Mickleburgh - described by her family as their "champagne girl" who lit up every room - was found at the five-star Pennyhill Park Hotel in Bagshot on 14 April last year. After one afternoon of deliberating, a jury last month unanimously convicted James Cartwright for raping and murdering the mother-of-two during their stay at the hotel for his birthday. Cartwright, 61, was acquitted of a charge of controlling and coercive behaviour, but prosecutor Louise Oakley argued his conduct during the relationship with Ms Mickleburgh was "cruel, repressive and overbearing". Sentencing the defendant at Guildford Crown Court on Friday, Mr Justice Murray said: "Samantha's family suffer a grief that those who have not experienced it cannot imagine. It lies beyond words to fully describe." Image: Samantha Mickleburgh. Pic: Surrey Police/PA Six of Ms Mickleburgh's loved ones gave victim impact statements, including one of her sisters, Tracey Carter, who told Cartwright she would "never understand why you thought you had the right to do the horrific things that you did to Sam". "I wish she had never met you," she said. "Did you feel proud of yourself when you lied to my father, saying that Sam had died in her sleep knowing full well the horror that you had put her through? "Do you take some kind of sadistic enjoyment in your lies? You have caused an indescribable amount of pain and suffering to our family but know this: we are strong and you cannot break us, you cannot take Sam from us. "I believe you are a monster - an evil, controlling, manipulative predator who really thought you were clever enough to get away with murder, my sister's murder." Cartwright, of no fixed address, was jailed for nine years for rape - a sentence which will run concurrent to his sentence for murder. Ms Mickleburgh, from Axminster in Devon, had ended her relationship with Cartwright but "honoured" a commitment she had made to spend his 60th birthday with him, the court heard. She booked a twin room with separate beds and a six-course Michelin star dinner at the Surrey hotel. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free After the second course, Ms Mickleburgh became tired and unwell, with staff in restaurant saying she struggled to stand when Cartwright walked her out. They returned to the room where "at some point" she suffered a skull fracture, and Cartwright raped her and strangled her to death with his hands. Read more: Teen guilty of murdering schoolboy Boy, 4, dies after being hit by bus outside hospital Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update Tap here to follow He called an ambulance at 8.30am the next morning and claimed he had discovered Ms Mickleburgh dead beside him in bed. Before making the phone call, the prosecution said Cartwright placed an engagement ring on his ex-partner's finger to "support this assertion that they had become re-engaged the night before" and "staged the hotel room" to make it look as though they had consensual sex. The court heard Cartwright was subject to a conditional caution for harassing a former partner, with prosecutor Ms Oakley saying there is a "history of controlling and coercive behaviour in terms of his behaviour towards women". Related Topics Surrey