China orders 'all-out' rescue operation as 10 killed and dozens missing after floods
China orders 'all-out' rescue operation as 10 killed and dozens missing after floods Heavy rainfall began around 6pm on Thursday, triggering flash floods in Yuzhong, Gansu province, and leaving about 4,000 people stranded. Friday 8 August 2025 16:00, UK Image: People being rescued in Zhengzhou on Thursday. Pic: FeatureChina/AP Why you can trust Sky News President Xi Jinping has ordered "all-out" rescue efforts in China's dry and mountainous northwest after severe flash floods, triggered by exceptionally heavy rainfall. The extreme conditions have resulted in at least 10 deaths and have left 33 people missing. Heavy rainfall began around 6pm on Thursday, triggering flash floods in Yuzhong, Gansu province, and leaving about 4,000 people stranded. Image: Rescuers at the site of mountain torrents in Yuzhong County. Pic: Xinhua/AP One mountainous area in Yuzhong County saw up to 195mm (7.7in) of rainfall since Thursday evening - around half of the 300mm to 400mm it typically gets in an entire year. Ankle-deep muddy water could be seen flowing down a hillside road, bordered by trees that had been torn from the ground. More on China Thousands fall ill with mosquito-borne chikungunya virus in China What would Trump do if China invaded Taiwan? Authoritarian states operating with impunity to silence dissidents in UK, report finds Related Topics: China Image: A delivery rider moves across a flooded road in Zhengzhou. Pic: Chinatopix/AP "The top priority must be to make every possible effort to search for and rescue missing people, relocate and resettle people under threat, minimise casualties, and restore communications and transportation as quickly as possible," President Xi said. He warned local authorities against falling into "complacency and negligence" amid the recent surge in extreme weather events. Yuzhong lies amid gullies and hills composed of wind-blown silt on one of the largest loess plateaus in the world. This loose soil structure makes the area prone to flash floods and landslides, as it becomes unstable when soaked in water. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 1:58 July: Dozens dead in Beijing floods Heavy rains and flooding have killed at least 60 people across northern China including the capital Beijing since late July. The National Development and Reform Commission announced on Friday that it has allocated 100 million yuan (£10.4m) to support rescue efforts in Gansu following the disaster. Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update Tap here to follow Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Since April, China has pledged at least six billion yuan (£622m) in disaster relief funding. Meteorologists have linked the extreme weather events in China's north and south to climate change. Related Topics China