Teen guilty of knife murder of schoolboy during lunch break
Teenager guilty of murder of schoolboy Harvey Willgoose during lunch break Harvey, 15, was killed by a fellow student outside their school cafeteria on 3 February this year. Katerina Vittozzi North of England correspondent @kvittozzi Friday 8 August 2025 15:56, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 4:51 Teenager guilty of murder Why you can trust Sky News A 15-year-old boy has been found guilty of the murder of Sheffield schoolboy Harvey Willgoose. Harvey, also 15, was killed by a fellow student outside their school cafeteria in February this year. His parents, Mark and Caroline Willgoose, have told Sky News that school knife crime is "a way of life for kids". The defendant, who cannot be named for legal reasons, had brought a 13cm hunting knife with him into All Saints Catholic High School stabbing Harvey twice in the chest just a few minutes into the lunch break. CCTV, released by police after the boy's conviction, showed Harvey arriving at school, as well as earlier footage of the defendant trying to provoke Harvey, who the court heard remained "peaceful". Other footage showed the defendant holding a knife in the canteen prior to the stabbing. Image: CCTV image showing Harvey arriving at school Image: CCTV shows the defendant pushing Harvey Willgoose earlier in the day Image: The defendant holding a knife in the canteen Pics: South Yorkshire Police/PA The boy had previously admitted manslaughter but denied murder. He was found guilty at Sheffield Crown Court on Friday by a majority verdict of 11 to one after 14 hours of jury deliberations. He will be sentenced in October, when the judge will also consider lifting his anonymity. Image: Harvey Willgoose. Pic: Facebook The boy's defence told the court the defendant had "lost control", stabbing Harvey after years of bullying and "an intense period of fear at school". Moments after stabbing Harvey, he told teachers, "you know I can't control it" and "I'm not right in the head". Giving evidence, the boy told the court he had no recollection of the moment he killed Harvey, something the prosecution said was "a lie". They told the jury the schoolboy "wanted to show he was hard" and had become "obsessed" with weapons in the lead up to Harvey's death, with photographs of him posing with knives found on his phone. Image: Harvey and his father Mark 'Our lives changed forever that day' Speaking outside court after the verdict, Harvey's sister Sophie Willgoose said in a family statement: "On 3 February, we didn't just lose Harvey, we lost a part of ourselves. Our lives changed forever that day." She described him as "full of life", a "warm, funny, caring boy who had a unique ability to bring people together" and whose "presence lit up every room". "This tragedy has not only devastated our family, it has rippled across the country. People everywhere continue to grieve the loss of our beautiful boy," she said. She thanked those who "held Harvey as he took his last breaths" and promised to raise awareness of the dangers of knife crime to ensure a "better, safer future for us all". Image: Harvey Willgoose's sister Sophie (centre) with her parents Caroline (left) and Mark Willgoose outside Sheffield Crown Court. Pic: PA Read more from Sky News Boy, 4, dies as he walks out of hospital Restriction zones for dometic abusers introduced Tributes to one-year-old girl Detective Inspector Joe Hackworthy, of South Yorkshire Police, the senior investigating officer in Harvey's case, also spoke outside court. "This trial has been a heartbreaking reminder of the devastation knife crime causes in our communities," he said. "It tears lives and families apart and that has never been more evident than in this tragic case. "Tonight, one boy's family will spend another night grieving the unimaginable loss of their beloved son, while another boy's family will be living with the reality that their son faces a life behind bars for murder." He thanked the Willgoose family, who "had to endure a lengthy trial because of the murderer's refusal to admit the full extent of what he did on that tragic day". He urged parents and carers to have "open and honest" conversations with their children should they suspect they are carrying knives, or to tell someone they trust if they believe someone else they know is doing so. Image: Harvey and Sophie Willgoose. Pic: Sophie Willgoose Chris Hartley, of the Crown Prosecution Service, expressed the organisation's "huge sympathies" for Harvey's family and friends. "The CPS and South Yorkshire Police were able to prove that the defendant did not lose self-control but intended to deliberately attack 15-year-old Harvey," he said in a statement read outside court. "We remind teenagers that there can be horrendous and serious consequences of carrying knives. It has been proven that if you carry these weapons, you are more likely to use them or be a victim of knife crime. You are putting yourself, other people and your future at risk." Image: Harvey Willgoose and his mother Caroline 'We led him into the lion's den' Speaking to Sky News ahead of today's verdict, Harvey's mother, Caroline Willgoose, said she felt she had "led [her son] into the lion's den". She said Harvey was a "school avoider" who had "anxiety" about going there. "We badgered Harvey into going to school but I don't think people realise that there is a problem in all schools with knives," says Mrs Willgoose. "It's a way of life now for kids, and it needs to stop." During the trial, it was revealed that the defendant had had previous violent outbursts at school, and, a few months before Harvey was stabbed, the school had called the police when the defendant's mother contacted them to say she had found a weapon in her son's bag at home. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Harvey's parents told Sky News they feel that the school did not take previous knife-related incidents "seriously enough" and felt "100%" the outcome might have been different if they had. The head of St Clare Catholic Multi Academy Trust - a group of schools including All Saints - also told Sky News Harvey's death "was an unimaginable tragedy for all". Steve Davies said: "We think especially of Harvey's family, loved ones and friends today. We cannot begin to imagine the immeasurable impact the loss of Harvey has had on them. "Harvey was a much-loved, positive and outgoing pupil whose memory will be cherished by all who knew him. As a community, we have been devastated by his death, and we continue to think of him every day." He added: "Harvey's death was an unimaginable tragedy for all, and one that understandably gives rise to a number of questions from his family and others. "Now that the trial has finished, a number of investigations aimed at addressing and answering these questions will be able to proceed. We will engage fully and openly with them to help ensure every angle is considered and no key questions are left unresolved." Image: Harvey Willgoose. Pic: South Yorkshire Police/PA Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update. Tap here to follow Describing her son as "a character" who "never stopped smiling, never stopped singing", Mrs Willgoose said she was now campaigning for "all schools and colleges" to use knife arches. "I want people to go into schools and talk about the devastation of what knife crime does." In an emotional interview, she said she felt her son was "put here for a reason" and "I can't let go until I put things right for him". "There's no winners when it comes to knife crime," she said. The defendant "has ruined his life, his parent have got an empty bed", she added. "He's got to live with this for the rest of his life." Harvey's father, Mark Willgoose, said that his son had had "a short life, but a good life". "He crammed everything in, and you've just got to try and see the positives in that," Mr Willgoose added. "Whatever happens in court, it'll never be justice. It'll never be enough. "I think we've just got to make sure Harvey's death is not going to be in vain, and if whatever we do saves one life, then it's been worth us doing it."