Second California wildfire in a week at 'zero containment' – evacuating thousands
Second California wildfire in a week at 'zero containment' – evacuating thousands The fire at Hasley Canyon, Ventura County began at around 1.30pm on Thursday, spreading to an area of 2.3 square miles in just five hours. A separate blaze within the Los Padres National Forest is now burning an area of 154 square miles. Friday 8 August 2025 16:17, UK Image: A resident rides a golf cart as he exits his property in Hasley Canyon on Thursday. Pic: AP Why you can trust Sky News California's second wildfire in a week is "0% contained", with more than 4,200 people evacuated from their homes. The Canyon Fire at Hasley Canyon, Ventura County, began at around 1.30pm on Thursday, spreading to an area of 2.3 square miles in just five hours, according to county officials. Late on Thursday, it was still "0% contained" and spreading east, they added. A separate fire that began last Friday, now California's biggest this year, is still burning across the Los Padres National Forest. Image: Firefighter at Hasley Canyon. Pic: AP Image: A fire crew battles the Canyon Fire in Hasley Canyon, California. Pic: AP Image: A firefighter battles the Canyon Fire on Thursday. Pic: AP Image: A map shows the two ongoing California wildfires Read more One dead in wildfire in southern France 'Truly great disaster' from Turkey wildfires More than 110 injured in fire The immediate evacuation zone in Ventura County is relatively unpopulated, with just 56 people asked to leave their homes in the Lake Piru recreation area. But in neighbouring LA County, 4,200 residents and 1,400 buildings are under evacuation orders, with a further 12,500 issued with an evacuation warning, Ventura County Fire Department spokesman Andrew Dowd said. Mr Dowd described the blaze as a "very dynamic situation" caused by particularly hot and dry weather at this time of year, steep and rugged terrain, and dry fuel. Image: A resident rides his bike through the fires in Hasley Canyon. Pic: AP Image: A resident rides his golf buggy through the Canyon Fire. Pic: AP Some 250 firefighters are working to bring the flames under control, equipped with helicopters and air support, he added. In LA County, supervisor Kathryn Barger said: "Extreme heat and low humidity in our north county have created dangerous conditions where flames can spread with alarming speed. If first responders tell you to leave, go without hesitation." Image: A lone firefighter at Hasley Canyon. Pic: AP Image: A California Department of Corrections fire crew in Hasley Canyon. Pic: AP Image: Smoke from the Canyon Fire at Hasley Canyon fills the road on Thursday. Pic: AP Gifford Fire now California's largest this year The Hasley Canyon fire is located just south of Lake Piru, where the Hughes Fire burned around 15 square miles of land and evacuated 50,000 people in January this year. The Gifford Fire in Los Padres National Forest was only at 15% containment late on Thursday. It has spread to an area of 154 miles after four small fires broke out along Route 166 last Friday. At least four people have been reported injured. The cause of the fire is still under investigation. August and September are the most dangerous months for wildfires in California, with the state forecast warning: "The threat is driven by persistent drought, high grass loads, and weakening coastal moisture." Related Topics California California Wildfires