Mandalorian actor settles lawsuit with Disney – and thanks Elon Musk for funding it
Mandalorian actor Gina Carano settles lawsuit with Disney – and thanks Elon Musk for funding it Carano, 41, was fired in February 2021 after starring as Rebel ranger Cara Dune in two series of the Disney+ Star Wars series The Mandalorian. Friday 8 August 2025 10:56, UK Image: Gina Carano at the Disney+ launch event for The Mandalorian in 2019. Pic: Mark Von Holden/Invision/AP Why you can trust Sky News Actor Gina Carano has settled her lawsuit with Disney and Lucasfilm after claiming she was wrongfully dismissed from The Mandalorian for expressing her political opinions. Carano was fired in February 2021 after starring as Rebel ranger Cara Dune in two series of the Disney+ Star Wars series The Mandalorian. According to court documents, it came after the 41-year-old referenced the Nazis' treatment of Jewish people while discussing current political differences in the US. At the time, production company Lucasfilm said in a statement that her "social media posts denigrating people based on their cultural and religious identities are abhorrent and unacceptable". But late on Thursday, she posted on X: "I have come to an agreement with Disney/Lucasfilm which I believe is the best outcome for all parties involved." She added that she "hopes this brings some healing to the force". X This content is provided by X, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable X cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to X cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow X cookies for this session only. Enable Cookies Allow Cookies Once The details of the financial settlement have not been disclosed. When filing her lawsuit at the Californian District Court last year, she had sought $75,000 (£59,000) in damages. She also thanked Elon Musk for financing the lawsuit, despite the two having never met. "I want to extend my deepest most heartfelt gratitude to Elon Musk, a man I've never met, who did this Good Samaritan deed for me in funding my lawsuit," she wrote in her post. "Thank you Mr. Musk and X for backing my case and asking for nothing in return." The X owner is an ardent advocate of free speech and has funded similar legal battles previously. Read more from Sky News Eddie Murphy 'will get an Oscar eventually' Diddy plotting to return to music Oasis gig more 'ground-shaking' than Taylor Swift's Image: Carano as Cara Dune.'The Mandalorian'. Pic: Lucasfilm/Disney/Kobal/Shutterstock Carano signed off: "I am excited to flip the page and move onto the next chapter. "My desires remain in the arts, which is where I hope you will join me. Yes, I'm smiling. From my heart to yours, Gina." In response to the settlement, Lucasfilm said in a statement: "Ms Carano was always well respected by her directors, co-stars, and staff, and she worked hard to perfect her craft while treating her colleagues with kindness and respect. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free "With this lawsuit concluded, we look forward to identifying opportunities to work together with Ms. Carano in the near future." In legal documents, Carano's team claimed both Disney and Lucasfilm had "targeted, harassed, publicly humiliated, defamed, and went to great lengths to destroy Carano's career". She also alleged she was treated differently to her male colleagues. Neither company commented on these claims. Image: Pic: Lucasfilm/Disney/Kobal/Shutterstock Lawyer Gene Schaerr, managing partner at Schaerr Jaffe, said at the time: "Disney bullied Ms Carano, trying to force her to conform to their views about cultural and political issues, and when that bullying failed, they fired her. "Punishing employees for their speech on political or social issues is illegal under California law." Carano, who began her career as a mixed martial arts fighter, has starred in other Hollywood franchises, including Fast & Furious 6 as Riley Hicks, and Deadpool, in which she played Angel Dust. Related Topics Disney