'Fly high princess' Family pay tribute to one-year-old girl after two arrested over her death
Jayla-Jean Mclaren: Family pay tribute to one-year-old girl after two arrested over her death A 31-year-old man and a 27-year-old woman were previously arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm with intent. Friday 8 August 2025 01:14, UK Image: Jayla-Jean Mclaren. Pic: Hampshire and Isle of Wight Constabulary Why you can trust Sky News The family of a one-year-girl who died on the Isle of Wight have paid tribute to her after a man and woman were arrested in relation to her death. Jayla-Jean Mclaren died on Sunday, two days after she was taken to hospital with serious injuries. In a statement published by the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Constabulary on Thursday, her family said: "Mummy, daddy, and nanny will always love you. Fly high princess." A 31-year-old man and a 27-year-old woman, both from Newport in the Isle of Wight, were previously arrested on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm with intent. They have since been released on conditional bail pending further inquiries, police said. "We know emotions are understandably high in the local community following news of this devastating incident," Detective Superintendent Rod Kenny said. Read more from Sky News: Homelessness minister resigns after rent hike claims Tropical storm to bring potential heatwave Superman actor joining ICE to 'save America' Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update. Tap here to follow "First and foremost, our thoughts remain with all who knew and loved Jayla-Jean," he continued. "I want to reassure the community that our investigation remains ongoing, and we are working tirelessly to establish the full facts surrounding Jayla-Jean's death." He added: "While we understand the community concern, we urge people not to speculate on the circumstances as this will cause further distress to those who knew Jayla-Jean and could impede the ongoing police investigation. "We will provide further updates as soon as we are able to." Related Topics Isle of Wight