Humiliating demise for Labour minister after a most egregious case of double standards
Analysis Analysis Rushanara Ali: Humiliating demise for Labour minister after a most egregious case of double standards Labour's homelessness minister Rushanara Ali has resigned having reportedly hiked the rent on a property she owns by hundreds of pounds - something which was described by one of her tenants as "extortion". Jon Craig Chief political correspondent @joncraig Friday 8 August 2025 01:29, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 4:43 Jon Craig: 'It's a very swift resignation' Why you can trust Sky News Rushanara Ali's swift and humiliating demise is a classic example of paying the price for the politician's crime of "do as I say, not as I do". She was Labour's minister for homelessness, for goodness' sake, yet she ejected tenants from her near-£1m town house and then hiked the rent. Politics Hub: Minister's resignation as it happened A more egregious case of ministerial double standards it would be difficult to imagine. She had to go and was no doubt told by 10 Downing Street to go quickly. Image: Rushanara Ali reportedly hiked the rent on a property she owns. Pic: PA 'A heavy heart' - really? MP for the East End constituency of Bethnal Green and Stepney, Ms Ali was the very model of a modern Labour minister: A degree in PPE from Oxford University. In her resignation letter to Sir Keir Starmer, she said she is quitting "with a heavy heart". Really? She presumably didn't have a heavy heart when she ejected her four tenants. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free She'd previously spoken out against "private renters being exploited" and said her government would "empower people to challenge unreasonable rent increases". The now former minister was charging her four former tenants £3,300 a month. Yet after they moved out, she charged her new tenants £4,000 - a rent increase of more than 20%. Read more politics news: Fact-checking Farage's claims Why chancellor has little to cheer Image: The report about the Labour MP first emerged in the i newspaper. Pic: UK Parliament A fragile constituency for Labour? In an area represented by the left-wing firebrand George Galloway from 2005 to 2010, Ms Ali had a majority of under 1,700 at the election last year. Ominously for Labour, an independent candidate was second and the Greens third. No doubt Jeremy Corbyn's new party will also stand next time. In her resignation letter to the PM, Ms Ali said continuing in her ministerial role would be a distraction. Too right. A distraction Sir Keir and his increasingly unpopular government could have done without. Related Topics Labour