Eddie Murphy I'll get an Oscars trophy eventually - when I'm old and have no teeth
Eddie Murphy: I'll get an Oscar eventually - when I'm old and have no teeth The Nutty Professor star teams up with Keke Palmer and Pete Davidson for a new heist comedy, The Pickup, based on two security van drivers. Debbie Ridgard Entertainment reporter @Debbie_Ridgard Friday 8 August 2025 10:05, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 0:49 Eddie Murphy makes Oscars prediction Why you can trust Sky News Eddie Murphy has told Sky News he doesn't ever expect to win awards - but will happily accept an honorary Oscar when he's 90. Murphy is one of the biggest stars in comedy after starting out on Saturday Night Live (SNL) in 1980 and starring in a number of big franchises from Beverly Hills Cop to Shrek. His latest project is heist comedy The Pickup, centred on two security van drivers. Keke Palmer and Pete Davidson star alongside him. Image: Eddie Murphy. Pic: Reuters Murphy says award recognition was never something that shaped the projects he chose. "The movies are timeless, and they're special, so for years and years those movies play and the movies have commercial success. "So you make a lot of money and people love it, so you don't even think about 'I didn't win a trophy!' The response from the people and that the movie has legs, that's the trophy. "You know what I've earned over these years? One day, they'll give me one of those honorary Oscars. When I'm really old. And I'll say thank you so much for this wonderful honour. I'll be old like that and I'll have no teeth. I'm cool with getting my honorary Oscar when I'm 90." Image: Pete Davidson, Eddie Murphy and Keke Palmer in The Pickup. Pic: Amazon MGM Studios Murphy, 64, has only been nominated once - for Dreamgirls in 2007, when Alan Arkin won the best supporting actor Oscar for Little Miss Sunshine. Murphy's co-star Palmer says she considers Murphy an icon in the industry, and The Nutty Professor was a true display of his artistry. Image: Eddie Murphy as Sherman Klump in The Nutty Professor. Pic: Reuters "I feel like recognition and [being] underrated and all this stuff, it annoys me a little bit because I think impact is really the greatest thing, like how people were moved by your work, which can't really be measured by an award or really anything," Palmer says. "It's very hard to make people laugh, and so when I think about it like The Nutty Professor, Eddie was doing everything, and I swear that the family members were real people. "He didn't camp it to the point where they weren't realistic. His roles had integrity, even when he was in full costume. And I do think that's something that should change in our industry. Comedy, it should be looked at just as prestigious as when you see somebody cry, because it's that hard to make somebody laugh." Image: Eddie Murphy and Pete Davidson in The Pickup. Pic: Amazon MGM Studios Recalling his time on the 90s comedy, Murphy says he's still in disbelief of what they achieved in making the film with him playing seven characters - Professor Sherman Klump, Buddy Love, Lance Perkins, Young Papa Klump, Granny Klump, Ernie Klump and Mama Klump. "You can only shoot one character a day. And the rest of the time you're shooting, I'm talking to tennis balls where the people were sitting. "So to this day when I watch it, I'm like, wow, that's a trip. But we were able to mix all that stuff up and different voices and make it feel so that you don't even feel like when you're watching it, someone have to tell you, hey, you know, those are all one person." The film won best makeup at the 1997 Academy Awards. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Security guards buddy comedy Palmer says their new project, The Pickup, is responsible for one of the most memorable moments of her life when she mistook Murphy's acting for real praise. "First of all, Eddie gives me this big speech before I do the monologue, where he's like, 'this is not playing around. This is a pivotal point in the movie'. "I'm crying in the scene, and then it comes to the end, and Eddie's [clapping] like, and I'm literally like, 'oh my gosh, thank you so much'. And he's like, 'I'm acting'. When I tell you, it was so crazy, yeah. That's like one of my most memorable moments in life." Image: Keke Palmer and Pete Davidson star in The Pickup Davidson is excited to see how the UK puts its own stamp on SNL, the show where both he and Murphy got their start on-screen. "It's a smart idea to have SNL over there because it's not that it's a different brand of comedy, but it is a little bit. A lot of the biggest stuff that's in the States is stuff that we stole from you guys, like The Office or literally anything Ricky Gervais does. "This is the first time I've ever heard anything American going to the UK, so I think it's great. I think it's great to have two opposite sorts of takes on things, but both be funny. That just shows you how broad comedy can be, you know? The Pickup is out on Prime Video now.