Power restored to last homes cut off by Storm Floris
Power restored to last homes cut off by Storm Floris 2 days ago Share Save Share Save SSEN About 950 homes were still without power this week The last of the homes in northern Scotland left without power due to Storm Floris have had their energy supplies restored. Wind gusts of up to 90mph caused widespread disruption on Monday, leading to cancelled trains, flights and road closures. Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks (SSEN) said it had restored power to almost 72,000 households, with about 950 still cut off on Wednesday. The firm said its repairs, hindered by fallen trees and considerable damage to overhead lines, had now been completed. Hundreds still without power after Storm Floris Thousands spend second night without power after Storm Floris SSEN said customers without power for more than 12 hours were entitled to £30 per person for every day off supply, to cover the cost of food and drink. Those eligible have been told to keep their receipts and claim costs back via the SSEN website. Customers without power for more than 48 continuous hours are entitled to an initial payment of £85 and a further £45 for each continuous six-hour period that they did not have power thereafter. These payments are issued automatically as cheques. Those eligible do not need to make a claim or contact SSEN, the firm said. 'Exceptional' storm Andy Smith, SSEN distribution's director of customer operations for the north of Scotland, said: "Floris was an exceptional storm, which has called for an exceptional response from us. "One thousand people have been working hard to reconnect homes and support customers, while a huge volume of network reconstruction has been done in challenging conditions." He thanked customers for their "patience and understanding", adding: "Now supplies have been restored, I encourage those who lost power to take a look at the details of compensation that will be provided, and also to make a claim for reimbursement if they qualify." Amber warning as Storm Floris brings damage and disruption Scotland Severe weather Related Watch: BBC reporter learns new tricks with Edinburgh Fringe acts Sturgeon denies 'conspiracy to destroy' mentor Salmond Scotland's papers: Sturgeon book revelations and Oasis 'let rip' More from the BBC 10 hrs ago Fire prompts thousands of evacuations in California The Canyon Fire, which began on Thursday afternoon, has blazed through nearly 5,000 acres in less than 24 hours. 10 hrs ago 2 days ago France still battling largest wildfire in 75 years The huge wildfire will burn for several more days but is now contained. 2 days ago 3 days ago Hundreds still without power after Storm Floris Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks (SSEN) said it had restored supplies to more than 70,000 homes. 3 days ago 3 days ago France wildfire is 'catastrophe on an unprecedented scale', says PM The huge wildfire is the largest in France so far this year and has burned an area larger than Paris. 3 days ago 4 days ago Rollercoaster record on track despite Storm Floris Thrill-seeker Dean Stokes had wanted to go on 120 rollercoasters across 32 theme parks in 16 days. 4 days ago