Diddy plotting return to music with Madison Square Garden gig, his lawyer says
Diddy plotting return to music with Madison Square Garden gig, his lawyer says It follows reports the rapper has been in contact with Donald Trump about a pardon after being convicted of prostitution-related offences. Thursday 7 August 2025 15:24, UK Image: File pic: Reuters Why you can trust Sky News Disgraced hip hop mogul Sean "Diddy" Combs is hoping to make a comeback to music with a concert at Madison Square Garden, his lawyer has said. On Tuesday, the rapper was denied bail ahead of his sentencing in October, when he could face up to 20 years in prison after he was convicted of prostitution-related offences. The sentence, however, will likely be much shorter than that. Speaking to CBS News, the rapper's lawyer Marc Agnifilo said Combs told him "he's going to be back at Madison Square Garden", the iconic arena in New York City. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:51 Diddy's defence celebrate after verdict Read more: How the trial unfolded The rise and fall of Sean 'Diddy' Combs In July, Combs was found guilty of two counts of transportation for prostitution - but cleared of more serious charges of racketeering conspiracy and sex-trafficking, which carried potential life sentences. Combs, who co-founded Bad Boy Records and launched the career of the late Notorious BIG, was for decades a huge figure in pop culture - as well as a Grammy-winning artist and entrepreneur, who presided over an empire ranging from fashion to reality TV. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:11 Could Trump pardon Sean 'Diddy' Combs? Follow The World Listen to The World with Richard Engel and Yalda Hakim every Wednesday Tap to follow Now, as well as the criminal conviction, he is also facing several civil lawsuits. It follows recent reports that Combs has been in contact with Donald Trump about a pardon, a source close to the rapper's legal team told Sky News' US partner network NBC News. A White House spokesperson said it "will not comment on the existence or nonexistence of any clemency request". Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Related Topics Sean Combs