Scottish city to introduce 7% 'tourist tax' on visitors
Aberdeen to introduce 7% 'tourist tax' on visitors The levy will bring Aberdeen in line with other visitor hot spots, including Venice, Barcelona, Amsterdam and New York. Jenness Mitchell Scotland reporter @Jenster13 Thursday 7 August 2025 11:57, UK Image: Aberdeen Harbour. Pic: PA Why you can trust Sky News Councillors have given the green light for the introduction of a 7% visitor levy for Aberdeen. The "tourist tax" will not come into force until at least April 2027, but it is expected to generate millions of pounds a year that will be reinvested back into the city. The charge for overnight stays will apply to paid accommodation, including hotels, B&Bs, hostels, guest houses, camping sites, caravan parks, and vessels that are permanently or predominantly situated in one place. Cruise ships and motor homes will be exempt from the levy, as well as those in receipt of disability payments. A report to Aberdeen City Council's finance and resources committee said that with the average hotel room costing about £70, the levy would cost an extra £4.90 per night. On that basis, the new charge could generate up to £6.8m a year. Funds raised will be put towards projects that help enhance leisure and business tourism in the city. Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update. Tap here to follow The committee approved the levy on Wednesday. It will bring Aberdeen in line with other visitor hot spots, including Venice, Barcelona, Amsterdam and New York. Councillor Alex McLellan, committee convener, said: "The income generated from the visitor levy, paid by those visiting the city, will provide a huge boost to our local economy and allow us to invest in bringing major events and conferences here on a more regular basis. "Across Europe we are paying similar amounts to stay per night subsidising their thriving economies, and we should do the same to ensure we can compete in terms of attracting both business and leisure tourism to Aberdeen." Read more from Sky News: Chancellor warned 'substantial tax rises' needed The state of play as Trump's country-specific tariffs take effect Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free The levy comes after Holyrood last year passed legislation giving councils across Scotland the ability to introduce such a charge. Both Edinburgh and Glasgow have approved a 5% levy on overnight stays in hotels, short-term lets and B&Bs. Edinburgh's tourist tax will come into force from 24 July 2026, while Glasgow's will follow on 25 January 2027. Stephen Gow, chair of VisitAberdeenshire, said: "A well-managed scheme that supports the aims of the region's destination strategy will drive continued growth of Aberdeen's visitor economy. "Aberdeen welcomed 2.2 million overnight visits in 2024, contributing to an economic impact from tourism of over £500m. "The headroom for growth in the leisure and conference sectors will be fulfilled through effective investment in promotion, events, and development of the tourism sector." Related Topics Aberdeen Scotland Tourism