Will Trump's summit with Putin be diplomatic dynamite or just for show
Analysis Analysis Trump and Putin's first meeting in years does not necessarily mean a ceasefire in Ukraine If NBC's reports are correct, that a Putin-Trump summit is conditional on the Russian president meeting with Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy, then the summit may not happen at all. Ivor Bennett Moscow correspondent @IvorBennett Thursday 7 August 2025 18:09, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:10 Will Putin agree to Trump's condition to meet Zelenskyy? Why you can trust Sky News It could be diplomatic dynamite. The first meeting between a sitting US and Russian president in more than four years, following one of the bleakest periods in the history of their countries' bilateral relations. But a Putin-Trump summit does not necessarily mean there will be a ceasefire. Ukraine war latest: Kremlin aide's full statement on Trump-Putin talks On the one hand, it could signal that a point of agreement has been reached and a face-to-face meeting is needed to seal the deal. That has always been Russia's stance. It's consistently said it would only meet at a presidential level if there's something to agree on. On the other hand, there might not be anything substantive. It might just be for show. More on Donald Trump It's been four years since a US president met Putin - and Trump will have a lot of ice to break Donald Trump reveals when - and where - he will meet Putin for Ukraine talks Trump's approach to peacemaking is a choice between waging war or doing business Related Topics: Donald Trump Russia Ukraine Vladimir Putin Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:06 'Good chance' Trump will meet Putin soon Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free It might just be the latest attempt by the Kremlin to diffuse Donald Trump's anger and dodge his deadline to end the war by Friday or face sanctions. It would give Trump something that can be presented as progress, but in reality, it delivers anything but. After all, there has certainly not been any sign that Moscow is willing to soften its negotiating position or step back from its goals on the battlefield. Tellingly, perhaps, it's this latter view which has been taken by some of the Russian press on Thursday. Image: Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin have not met face to face since the US president returned to the White House. File pic: Reuters "Putin won" is the headline in Moskovsky Komsomolets regarding the Kremlin leader's meeting with Witkoff. The state-run tabloid quotes a political scientist, Marat Bashirov, who claims Putin "bought time" ahead of Friday's deadline. "It is noteworthy that in his rhetoric [on sanctions] Trump did not mention Russia at all," the paper notes. Komsomolskaya Pravda is similarly dismissive. "Donald Trump has two simple interests in connection with Ukraine: to earn money for America, and political whistles and the Nobel Peace Prize for himself," it says. "Russia has its own interests," it adds, "securing them is what Vladimir Putin will seek at a meeting with Trump." At this stage, the most likely location is the United Arab Emirates. Putin met the country's president in the Kremlin today, and afterwards said it would be a "suitable location". It felt like a strong hint. And the UAE certainly makes sense. It's played mediator for a number of the prisoner swaps between Russia and Ukraine; it has good relations with the US (and was one of Trump's stops on his recent Middle East tour); and most importantly for Moscow, it's not a member of the International Criminal Court. So Putin doesn't have to worry about being arrested. But if NBC's reports are correct, that a Putin-Trump summit is conditional on the Russian president meeting with Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy, then the summit may not happen at all. Read more on Russia and Ukraine: Trump went from frustration to a possible Putin meeting in hours What could a ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine involve? India hints it will keep buying Russian oil - despite Trump threats Follow The World Listen to The World with Richard Engel and Yalda Hakim every Wednesday Tap to follow Until now, Putin has refused to meet Zelenskyy, despite numerous demands from Kyiv, because he views him as illegitimate. The Kremlin said the prospect of a trilateral meeting between the leaders was mentioned by Witkoff on Wednesday, but the proposal was left "completely without comment" by Russia. Related Topics Donald Trump Russia Ukraine Vladimir Putin