Superman actor says he is joining ICE 'ASAP' in bid to 'save America'
Ex-Superman Dean Cain to join ICE 'ASAP' to 'save America' Cain, 59 and who was cast as Superman in the TV series Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman, announced he had joined the team amid the federal agency's unprecedented immigration raids. Claire Gilbody-Dickerson Reporter @ClaireGilbodyD Thursday 7 August 2025 14:06, UK Image: Dean Cain as Superman. Pic: Warner Bros/Everett/Shutterstock Why you can trust Sky News Dean Cain has been branded the "worst superman ever" as he announced he will join the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) "ASAP". The 59-year-old, who was cast as Superman in the TV series Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman, announced he had joined the team amid the federal agency's unprecedented immigration raids. He told Fox News' Jesse Watters Primetime show on Wednesday his recruitment video on Instagram had gone viral and since then, "I have spoken with some of the officials over at ICE and I will be sworn in as an ICE agent ASAP". "You can defend your homeland and get great benefits," he said in the Instagram post where he appealed for his followers to join ICE. Instagram This content is provided by Instagram, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Instagram cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Instagram cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Instagram cookies for this session only. Enable Cookies Allow Cookies Once Speaking with the Superman theme song in the background, he said "hundreds of thousands of criminals" had been arrested since US President Donald Trump took office. He then told his followers they would get a series of benefits if they joined ICE, including a $50,000 (£37,407) signing bonus and student loan repayment. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 4:28 Who is being targeted in Trump's immigration raids? Read more: Farmer becomes first person to die during Trump's ICE raids Meet the volunteers leading the fight against Trump's immigration raids More from US Trump 'considering' whether to invite Zelenskyy to Putin meeting in Alaska Man who killed police officer 'blamed COVID jab for making him depressed and suicidal' Donald Trump reveals when - and where - he will meet Putin for Ukraine talks "If you want to help save America ICE is arresting the worst of the worst and removing them from America's streets," he said, before adding: "I voted for that." ICE agents are under pressure from the White House to boost their deportation numbers in line with Mr Trump's campaign promise to crack down on illegal immigration. Cain's post on Instagram received some backlash, with one user commenting: "Worst superman ever". Another said: "Shame on you Dean - that's the most un-Superman thing you could possibly advocate." One fan turned against him and said: "Until I saw this I was such a fan. What a sad human being you must be."