More than 1,500 hours of CCTV seized after boy sexually assaulted in tent at campsite
More than 1,500 hours of CCTV seized after boy, 8, sexually assaulted in tent at Loch Ness campsite The attacker preyed on the schoolboy after sneaking into his tent at the Loch Ness Bay campsite in Drumnadrochit between 12.20am and 1am on Thursday 31 July. Thursday 7 August 2025 10:30, UK Image: Loch Ness Bay campsite Why you can trust Sky News Police have seized more than 1,500 hours of CCTV footage in the hunt for a man who sexually assaulted an eight-year-old boy at a campsite in the Scottish Highlands. The attacker preyed on the schoolboy after sneaking into his tent at the Loch Ness Bay campsite in Drumnadrochit between 12.20am and 1am on Thursday 31 July. The child's family were in an adjacent tent. The father overheard the incident, and when he came out to investigate, he saw the suspect walking away from his son's tent. One week on from the sexual assault, Police Scotland said more than 1,500 hours of CCTV footage have been seized and almost 100 properties visited as part of the inquiry. The suspect has been described as a white man, aged between 35 and 50, around 5ft 10ins tall, and bald. Detective Superintendent Calum Smith said: "We have significant resources dedicated to this investigation and are fully committed to finding the individual responsible. "Please be assured there is a lot of work going on behind the scenes and officers have seized more than 1,500 hours of public and private CCTV footage. "As part of our investigation, we have specialist resources from across the country assisting local officers. "We have had a good response from the public so far, but I would again urge anyone with information to please come forward." DS Smith added: "Please think back - were you in the area at the time? Did you notice anyone matching the suspect's description? "Even if it doesn't seem significant, please pass any information on. It could prove crucial to our investigation." Read more from Sky News: Zoo staff face death threats for feeding baboon remains to lions Man charged with trying to drown daughter-in-law in pool Specialist officers are continuing to support the boy and his family. Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update. Tap here to follow Superintendent Judy Hill said: "I would like to thank everyone for their help so far, including local businesses. "We understand this incident will be very upsetting and worrying for the people living in this community. "I would encourage anyone with any concerns, or any information, to approach local officers or call 101." Related Topics Scotland