UK warned it risks exodus of 'disillusioned' doctors
UK warned it risks exodus of 'disillusioned' doctors Research from the General Medical Council into how doctors are feeling about their careers comes after resident doctors staged a five-day walkout. Thursday 7 August 2025 03:50, UK Image: Resident doctors recently went on a five-day strike. Pic: PA Why you can trust Sky News Nearly one in five doctors is considering quitting in the UK, new figures show, while one in eight is thinking about leaving the country to work abroad. The General Medical Council (GMC), which commissioned the research, is warning that plans to cut hospital waiting lists will be at risk unless more is done to retain them. By July 2029, the prime minister has said 92% of patients needing routine hospital treatment like hip and knee replacements will be seen within 18 weeks. "[Poor staff retention] could threaten government ambitions to reduce waiting times and deliver better care to patients," warned the authors of the GMC's latest report. The main reason doctors gave for considering moving abroad was they are "treated better" in other countries, while the second most common reason was better pay. Some 43% said they had researched career opportunities in other countries, while 15% reported taking "hard steps" towards moving abroad, like applying for roles or contacting recruiters. "Like any profession, doctors who are disillusioned with their careers will start looking elsewhere," said Charlie Massey, chief executive of the GMC. "Doctors need to be satisfied, supported, and see a hopeful future for themselves, or we may risk losing their talent and expertise altogether." Read more on Sky News: Airport reopens after plane incident Reeves told big tax rises needed Hiroshima survivor's warning, 80 years on Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 3:13 'No doctor wants to go out on strike' The report - which comes after a recent five-day walkout by resident doctors - is based on the responses of 4,697 doctors around the UK and also explores how they feel about career progression. One in three said they are unable to progress their education, training and careers in the way they want. Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update Tap here to follow Those who didn't feel like their careers were progressing were at higher risk of burnout and were less satisfied with their work. The GMC blamed workloads, competition for jobs, and lack of senior support for development for adversely impacting the career progression of UK doctors. Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:51 'They are losing the respect of the community' 'Legitimate complaints' The Department of Health and Social Care acknowledged doctors had suffered "more than a decade of neglect". "Doctors have legitimate complaints about their conditions, including issues with training bottlenecks and career progression," said a spokesperson. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free "We want to work with them to address these and improve their working lives, which includes our plans set out in the 10 Year Health Plan to prioritise UK graduates and increase speciality training posts. "This government is committed to improving career opportunities and working conditions, bringing in ways to recognise and reward talent - as well as freeing up clinicians' time by cutting red tape." Related Topics Health NHS