Trump announces huge tech tariffs - and hails 'significant step' towards an 'ultimate goal'
Trump announces yet more tariffs and praises 'significant step' from Apple The US president - who memorably once referred to Tim Cook as Tim Apple - has previously criticised the tech boss and his company after it attempted to avoid his China tariffs by shifting iPhone production to India. Thursday 7 August 2025 05:38, UK Image: Trump seen through the trophy given to him by Tim Cook. Pic: AP Why you can trust Sky News Donald Trump has announced 100% tariffs on computer chips and semiconductors made outside the US. The move threatens to increase the cost of electronics made outside the US, which covers everything from TVs and video game consoles to kitchen appliances and cars. No date has been set for when they might come into force. A previously announced hike of tariff rates on a range of global trading partners, ranging from 10% up to beyond 40%, comes into effect today. The announcement of tech tariffs came as Apple chief executive Tim Cook said his company would invest an extra $100bn (£74.9bn) in US manufacturing. Soon, all smartwatch and iPhone glass around the world will be made in Kentucky, according to Mr Cook, speaking from the Oval Office on Wednesday. "This is a significant step toward the ultimate goal of ensuring that iPhones sold in the United States of America are also made in America," said Mr Trump. Mr Cook also presented the president with a one-of-a-kind trophy made by Apple in the US. Image: Trump seen through the trophy given to him by Tim Cook. Pic: AP Trump's tariffs hit India hard Mr Trump has previously criticised Mr Cook and Apple after the company attempted to avoid his tariffs by shifting iPhone production from China to India. The president said he had a "little problem" with Apple and said he'd told Mr Cook: "I don't want you building in India." Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update Tap here to follow India itself felt Mr Trump's wrath on Wednesday, as he issued an executive order hitting the country with an additional 25% tariff for its continued purchasing of Russian oil. Indian imports into the US will face a 50% tariff from 27 August as a result of the move, as the president seeks to increase the pressure on Russia to end the war in Ukraine. Speaking in New Delhi hours after the announcement, Narendra Modi, the Indian prime minister, said: "I will have to pay a heavy price for this, but I am ready." Mr Trump told reporters at the White House he "could" also hit China with more tariffs. The two powers have been in negotiations about extending a pause due to expire next week. Read more: Trump could meet Putin as early as next week Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:14 'Good chance' Trump will meet Putin soon Apple's 'olive branch' Apple, meanwhile, plans to hire 20,000 people in the US to support its extra manufacturing in the country, which will total $600bn (around £449bn) worth of investment over four years. The "vast majority" of those jobs will be focused on a new end-to-end US silicon production line, research and development, software development, and artificial intelligence, according to the company. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Apple's investment in the US caused the company's stock price to hike by nearly 6% in Wednesday's midday trading. The rise may reflect relief by investors that Mr Cook "is extending an olive branch" to Mr Trump, said Nancy Tengler, chief executive of money manager Laffer Tengler Investments, which owns Apple stock. Related Topics Apple Tim Cook