'Deeply loved' father shot dead in London named
'Deeply loved' father shot dead in Stoke Newington named Erdal Ozmen was found with gunshot injuries by police who were called to an address in north London after midnight on Tuesday. Wednesday 6 August 2025 23:45, UK Image: Pic: Metropolitan Police/PA Why you can trust Sky News A "deeply loved" father who was shot dead in north London has been named by police. Erdal Ozmen, 45, was found with gunshot injuries by Metropolitan Police officers who were called to Dynevor Road in Stoke Newington, a little after midnight on Tuesday and was pronounced dead at the scene. Mr Ozmen, was "a father-of-one and was deeply loved by his family", Detective Chief Inspector Dave Whellams, who is leading the murder investigation, said. Appealing to the public, he added: "Were you in the Dynevor Road area late on Monday night into early Tuesday morning? Did you see anyone acting out of the ordinary? "Did you hear anything at all which perhaps seemed unusual - maybe people shouting, or a loud vehicle?" A post-mortem examination has not yet been carried out and Mr Ozmen's family are being supported by specialist officers. The motive for the murder remains unclear, officers said. No arrests have been made. Residents said they woke to the sounds of gunshots. Liza Dodds, 58, a youth worker who lives opposite Dynevor Road, said: "My husband woke up and said there was gunshots. The instant reaction was 'how do you know?' "We both got up and had a look. A police officer was doing CPR where the person fell. It seemed like they were going forever." Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Another resident said: "I heard a few gunshots and the first thing I thought was that it was fireworks, because you don't expect it to be a gun. "I was trying to sleep but then later I heard sirens from the police cars." Read more on Sky News: UK airport reopens after plane incident Reeves told big tax rises needed Hiroshima survivor's warning, 80 years on Follow Sky News on WhatsApp Keep up with all the latest news from the UK and around the world by following Sky News One resident, who asked to remain anonymous, said: "We were out when it happened so we didn't hear or see anything. "But when we came back at around 1am, the whole area was cordoned off and the police officers told us that it will be a crime scene for a couple of days." Related Topics Knife crime London