Trump could meet Putin as early as next week to discuss Ukraine ceasefire - White House official
Trump could meet Putin as early as next week to discuss Ukraine ceasefire - White House official The official said the meeting would be conditional on the Russian president meeting his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy, Sky News's US partner network NBC News reported. Thursday 7 August 2025 06:04, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:06 Following a phone conversation between Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin, the US president suggests there could be face-to-face meetings involving Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Why you can trust Sky News Donald Trump could meet Vladimir Putin in person as early as next week to discuss a ceasefire in Ukraine, a White House official has said. They said the meeting would be conditional on the Russian president meeting his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy, Sky News's US partner network NBC News reported. It came days before the White House's deadline for Russia to reach a peace deal with Ukraine or face severe economic penalties, which could also target countries buying its oil. Ukraine war latest Asked during a news conference at the White House if the talks would take place, Mr Trump said: "There's a very good prospect that they will." He said it had not been determined where the talks would take place, but added: "We had some very good talks with President Putin today." However, he said: "I've been disappointed before with this one." Asked if Mr Putin made any kind of concession to lead to the development, Mr Trump did not give much away, but added: "We've been working on this a long time. There are thousands of young people dying, mostly soldiers, but also, you know, missiles being hit into Kyiv and other places." Could Trump finally be close to securing peace between Russia and Ukraine? Trump might finally be a step closer to ending the war David Blevins US correspondent @skydavidblevins Seven hours is a long time in US politics. At 10am, Donald Trump accused Russia of posing a threat to America's national security. At 5pm, Trump said there was a "good prospect" of him meeting Vladimir Putin "soon". There had, he claimed, been "great progress" in talks between his special envoy Steve Witkoff and the Russian president. It's difficult to gauge the chances of a meeting between the two leaders without knowing what "great progress" means. Is Russia "inclined" towards agreeing a ceasefire, as Ukraine's president now claims? Is Putin prepared to meet with his Ukrainian foe Volodymyr Zelenskyy, too? The very fact that we're asking those questions suggests something shifted on a day when there was no expectation of breakthrough. Trump repeatedly vowed to end the war within 24 hours of becoming president. On day 198 of his presidency, he might, just might, be one step closer to achieving that. More tariffs 'could happen' Mr Trump also said he could announce further tariffs on China similar to the 25% he announced on India over its purchases of Russian oil. "Could happen," he said, after saying he expected to announce more secondary sanctions intended to pressure Russia into ending its war with Ukraine. Earlier, he imposed an additional 25% tariff on Indian goods, on top of a previous 25% tariff, over its continued purchases of Russian oil. India's foreign ministry spokesperson said the additional tariffs were "unfair, unjustified and unreasonable". Image: Vladimir Putin welcomes Steve Witkoff during a meeting in Moscow. Pic: Sputnik/Reuters It came after Mr Putin held talks with Mr Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff in Moscow, with the meeting lasting around three hours. In a post on Truth Social, Mr Trump said Mr Witkoff "had a highly productive meeting" with Mr Putin in which "great progress was made". He said he had updated America's European allies, and they will work towards an end to the Russia-Ukraine war "in the days and weeks to come". Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 4:11 Correspondents in Washington and Moscow break down a busy day of diplomacy 'The war must end' Mr Zelenskyy later said he and Mr Trump spoke on the phone after the meeting. He said "European leaders also participated in the conversation" and "we discussed what was said in Moscow". He added: "Our common position with our partners is absolutely clear: The war must end. We all need lasting and reliable peace. Russia must end the war that it started." Mr Zelenskyy later said: "It seems that Russia is now more inclined to agree to a ceasefire." He added that the pressure on Moscow "is working", without elaborating, and stressed it was important to make sure Russia does not "deceive us or the United States" when it comes to "the details" of a potential agreement. Related Topics Donald Trump Ukraine Vladimir Putin