Zoo staff face death threats for feeding baboon remains to lions
Zoo staff face death threats for feeding baboon remains to lions The director of the German zoo tells Sky News his staff have not just faced death threats, but have also been compared to Nazis. Siobhan Robbins Europe correspondent @SiobhanRobbins Thursday 7 August 2025 13:06, UK Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 2:57 Would you give your pet to a zoo to become food? Why you can trust Sky News Staff at a zoo in Germany which culled 12 baboons and fed some of their carcasses to the lions say they have received death threats. Tiergarten Nuremberg euthanised the healthy Guinea baboons at the end of July due to overcrowding in their enclosure. Some remains were used for research while the rest were fed to the zoo's carnivores. Plans to kill the baboons were first announced last year after the population exceeded 40, and protestors gathered outside the zoo to show their outrage. When the site closed last Tuesday to carry out the cull, several activists were arrested after climbing the fence. The director of the zoo defended the decision, saying efforts to sterilise and rehome some baboons had failed. "We love these animals. We want to save a species. But for the sake of the species, we have to kill individuals otherwise we are not able to keep up a population in a restricted area," Dr Dag Encke told Sky News. Image: These are not the specific animals involved. File pics: Reuters 'The staff are suffering' He said police are investigating after he and the staff were sent death threats. "The staff are really suffering, sorting out all these bad words, insults and threats," Dr Encke said. "The normal threat is 'we will kill you, and we'll feed you to the lions'. "But what is really disgusting is when they say that's worse than Dr Mengele from the National Socialists, who was one of the most cruel people in human history. "That is really insulting all the victims of the Second World War and the Nazi regime." Josef Mengele was a Nazi officer who performed deadly experiments on prisoners at the Auschwitz concentration camp during the Second World War. Image: Dr Dag Encke Zoo animals 'treated as commodities' Culling animals and feeding them to predators isn't unheard of in zoos. In 2014, Copenhagen Zoo caused controversy by euthanizing an 18-month-old male giraffe called Marius and feeding his body to the lions. At the time, the zoo said it was due to a duty to avoid inbreeding. Dr Mark Jones, a vet and head of policy at Born Free Foundation, a charity which campaigns for animals to be kept in the wild, denounced the practice and said thousands of healthy animals are being destroyed by zoos each year. "It reflects the fact animals in zoos are often treated as commodities that are disposable or replaceable," he said. Image: Marius the giraffe was put down and publicly fed to lions at at Copenhagen Zoo in Denmark. Pic: Keld Navntoft/AFP/Getty Zoo asks for unwanted pets Earlier this week, a zoo in Denmark faced a backlash for asking for unwanted pets to be donated to be used as food for its predators. In a Facebook post, Aalborg Zoo said it could take smaller live animals such as chickens, rabbits and guinea pigs, as well as horses under 147cm. It said the animals would be euthanised by specially trained staff before being fed to carnivores like the European lynx. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free While some people supported the scheme, saying they had donated animals in the past, others are outraged. "The very idea of a zoo offering to take unwanted pets in order to kill them and feed them to their predators will, I think, horrify most right-minded people," said Dr Jones. Read more from Sky News: Trump could meet Putin next week Woman told she may lose leg after BBL Image: Dr Mark Jones Aalborg Zoo has now closed the post to comments and said in a statement: "For many years at Aalborg Zoo, we have fed our carnivores with smaller livestock. "When keeping carnivores, it is necessary to provide them with meat, preferably with fur, bones, etc., to give them as natural a diet as possible. "Therefore, it makes sense to allow animals that need to be euthanised for various reasons to be of use in this way. "In Denmark, this practice is common, and many of our guests and partners appreciate the opportunity to contribute."