Families fight to block parole for murderers who refuse to reveal location of their victims
Families fight to block parole for murderers who refuse to reveal location of their victims Justice Secretary Angela Constance denied watering down proposed law changes amid recent accusations of a "betrayal" to victims. Connor Gillies Scotland correspondent @ConnorGillies Wednesday 6 August 2025 17:56, UK Image: (L-R) Isabelle Thompson and Carol Gillies, the mum and sister of Arlene Fraser, alongside Gail Fairgrieve and Sylvia Pilley, the sister and mum of Suzanne Pilley. Pic: PA Why you can trust Sky News The families of victims involved in Scotland's highest profile murder cases are demanding convicted killers be refused parole unless they reveal where they dumped the bodies. Arlene Fraser was murdered by her husband Nat Fraser in Moray in 1998 after waving her children off to school. Her remains have never been found. Edinburgh bookkeeper Suzanne Pilley's body has also not been discovered despite her former lover David Gilroy being convicted of killing her and getting rid of her remains in remote woods in 2010. Gilroy's public denial began after he was confronted on camera by Sky News weeks after Ms Pilley, 38, vanished. He lied and said he was not involved in her death. Image: David Gilroy at the High Court in Edinburgh during his trial in 2012. Pic: PA Asked directly if he killed Ms Pilley, he replied: "I've got nothing to say, I've assisted the police with questions." He was later arrested, convicted and jailed for at least 18 years. Image: The families of Ms Fraser and Ms Pilley joined forces to host a media conference in Glasgow on Wednesday. Pic: PA The families of Ms Fraser and Ms Pilley joined forces to host a media conference in Glasgow on Wednesday after a meeting with Scotland's justice secretary to discuss upcoming changes to parole legislation. More on Scotland Oasis gig at Murrayfield in Edinburgh beats Taylor Swift for most 'ground-shaking' concert Aberdeen to introduce 7% 'tourist tax' on visitors More than 1,500 hours of CCTV seized after boy, 8, sexually assaulted in tent at Loch Ness campsite Related Topics: Scotland The event was organised by Victim Support Scotland, who brought the families together for the first time. Both Fraser and Gilroy are serving mandatory life sentences, but Fraser will be eligible for parole in October 2028 and Gilroy in March 2030. Image: Nat Fraser pictured in 2008. Pic: PA Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update. Tap here to follow Original plans to strengthen the law in Scotland would have seen killers being compelled to reveal the location of their victim's bodies or face having their parole rejected. But Scottish ministers have accepted a proposed amendment that states parole boards "must" take into account the refusal to cooperate. Under current legislation, parole board rules dictate that it "may" be taken into account. Image: Gail Fairgrieve, third left, said the family is still dealing with her sister's murder. Pic: PA Ms Pilley's sister, Gail Fairgrieve, said: "The parole board needs to understand that his crime is still continuing, he is perpetrating the crime against us. We are still dealing with this every day. "Everyday events - like you go into a card shop and you can't buy anything for your sister. It is there constantly, and he has information that could put us at ease. There is no remorse." Image: File pic of Suzanne Pilley Carol Gillies, Ms Fraser's sister, said: "It's a form of mental torture. He has that information, there is no doubt about it." Talking directly to killer Fraser, Ms Gillies said: "This is your choice. Tell us more or go back to your cell." Image: Arlene Fraser. Pic: PA Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Justice Secretary Angela Constance denied watering down the plans amid recent accusations of a "betrayal" to victims. The MSP told Sky News the families of murder victims gave their support to the proposals. She said: "Right now the parole board doesn't have to take this information into consideration. What I am saying is that I have and will continue to work with parliament to ensure that the law changes so that the parole board must take this into account." Kate Wallace, chief executive of Victim Support Scotland, said: "Legislatively, this amendment would bring Scotland in line with England and Wales, which have already enacted the equivalent Helen's Law. "It would also support the proposals for a corresponding Charlotte's Law in Northern Ireland. "While she cannot guarantee it herself, we are pleased that Angela Constance has reassured the family of her steadfast support of the amendment." The new Scottish legislation is likely to come into force within the next year. Related Topics Scotland