Five soldiers injured after shooting at US army base
Five soldiers shot by sergeant at major US army base President Donald Trump described the gunman as a "horrible person", though his motives remain unclear. The army base where the incident took place was his place of work and those injured are colleagues of his. Thursday 7 August 2025 04:56, UK Image: Fort Stewart is the largest US Army base east of the Mississippi River. Pic: AP Why you can trust Sky News Five soldiers have been injured in a shooting by a sergeant at one of America's largest army bases. Officials have named the attacker as Sergeant Quornelius Radford, 28, who used a personal handgun rather than a military weapon during the incident. It happened at Fort Stewart in Georgia, and forced a brief lockdown at the facility from just after 11am local time on Wednesday. Radford was arrested after being tackled by other troops, who "without a doubt, prevented further casualties or wounded", said Brigadier General John Lubas. He said three of the five injured soldiers needed surgery, but all were in a stable condition. "We're still not certain about the motivations," he added. President Donald Trump described the gunman as a "horrible person" in comments to reporters at the White House. More on Georgia, Us Man who claimed weedkiller caused cancer awarded $2.1bn by US jury Woman sues fertility clinic after giving birth to another couple's baby Georgia man sentenced to nearly 500 years over dog fighting Related Topics: Georgia, US Governor Brian Kemp said he and his family were "saddened by today's tragedy". "We are keeping the victims, their families, and all those who answer the call to serve in our hearts and prayers, and we ask that Georgians everywhere do the same," he wrote on X. Fort Stewart is around 25 miles (362km) southeast of Atlanta and is the largest US Army base east of the Mississippi River. It houses thousands of soldiers assigned to the army's 3rd Infantry Division and their family members. The fort's three schools, which have nearly 1,400 students, were also placed under lockdown. Three schools outside the base also took steps similar to a lockdown "out of an abundance of caution". Related Topics Georgia, US