The new space race NASA accelerates plan to put nuclear reactor on the moon
The new space race? NASA accelerates plan to put nuclear reactor on the moon NASA claimed it would be ready to launch a 100 kilowatt nuclear reactor to the moon by 2030. Sky News asked experts why and how it might work. Lauren Russell News reporter @laurenvrussell Wednesday 6 August 2025 17:23, UK Image: A concept image of NASA's Fission Surface Power Project. Pic: NASA Why you can trust Sky News NASA is accelerating plans to put a nuclear reactor on the moon, and they claim it could happen by 2030. In a directive - a written or oral instruction issued by the US government - to NASA staff earlier this month, Sean Duffy, US transport secretary and the new interim administrator of the space agency, said it should be ready to launch a 100 kilowatt nuclear reactor in five years. Plans to get a reactor on the lunar surface are not new. The NASA website states the space agency is working on the Fission Surface Power Project to create a system capable of generating at least 40 kilowatts of power - but that is less than half of what Mr Duffy has now proposed. He also stressed the importance of America's space agency deploying the technology before China and Russia. "To properly advance this critical technology, to be able to support a future lunar economy, high power energy generation on Mars, and to strengthen our national security in space, it is imperative the agency move quickly," the directive, which was first reported on by Politico, states. Image: Sean Duffy says NASA should be ready to launch a 100 kilowatt nuclear reactor in five years. Pic: Reuters A nuclear reactor on the moon would be considered a key step towards building a permanent base for humans to live on the lunar surface. But Mr Duffy warned that the first country to deploy a reactor "could potentially declare a keep-out zone" which he said could significantly inhibit NASA's Artemis mission - the lunar exploration programme which aims to land astronauts back on the moon in 2027. When quizzed about the plan on 5 August, he told reporters: "We're in a race to the moon, in a race with China to the moon. And to have a base on the moon, we need energy." Why use a nuclear reactor? Unlike solar power, which is used on the International Space Station, a small nuclear reactor can operate continuously, Dr Sungwoo Lim, a senior lecturer in space applications, exploration and instrumentation at the University of Surrey told Sky News. This is critical for infrastructure on the moon, which spends two weeks in complete darkness as it slowly orbits the Earth. Nuclear reactors therefore diminish the need for sunlight, and can be used to power life support, communications and other critical science instruments, even in darkness. Image: An artist impression of a nuclear reactor on the moon. Pic: NASA "In practice, this means astronauts could use a reactor to establish sustainable bases and extend exploration to places where solar energy is impractical," Dr Lim adds, including in the moon's permanently shadowed region, where scientists believe ice water exists. Professor Mike Fitzpatrick, an expert in nuclear technology at Coventry University, adds that the proposal of a 100 kilowatt nuclear reactor, is relatively small compared to most that are built on Earth. To put it in real terms, it takes around three kilowatts to power the kettle in your home. But Prof Fitzpatrick says a smaller reactor could pose as "demonstrator technology", something small and compact that makes it easier to transport it to the moon. "Then you can have a whole array of them," he says. So, what’s the catch? While scientists agree that nuclear energy seems like the necessary way to make progress on the moon, Prof Fitzpatrick says questions still remain about safety. "Shipping the fuel to the moon is relatively safe, because at that point it is not particularly toxic, it is the highly reactive fission products that become the issue," he says. "What's going to be the strategy for long-term storage and disposal on the moon after these plants have operated for certain periods of time? The sooner those conversations are had, and you have international consensus, the less likely it is you'll get future friction." Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 0:55 Four astronauts launch to ISS after delay Dr Lim also questioned Mr Duffy's timescale of 2030, saying meeting the target depends heavily on the space agency's budget. NASA's future funding is currently unknown after Donald Trump's 2026 budget request sought a cut of $6bn (£4.5bn) and the termination of dozens of science programs and missions. Over 2,000 agency employees are also set to voluntarily leave NASA in the coming months under the Trump administration's "deferred resignation" programme. Is this the new space race? Last year, Russia's space agency Roscosmos said it was planning to build a lunar nuclear reactor alongside China's National Space Administration by 2035, in order to power the International Lunar Research Station (ILRS). The collaboration was never formally announced by China but the joint plan was included in a presentation by Chinese officials in April this year, which outlined the 2028 Chang'e-8 lunar mission which aims to lay the groundwork for the ILRS. "Duffy explicitly described it as a competition," says Dr Lim, adding that the move towards lunar exploration signals a renewed moon or space race among major parties like China, Russia, India and the US to claim strategic lunar territory and technology. Read more: Permission granted for first-of-its-kind British rocket launch Astronauts arrive at International Space Station Follow The World Listen to The World with Richard Engel and Yalda Hakim every Wednesday Tap to follow However, Rossana Deplano a professor of international space law at the University of Leicester, says there is a lot of misunderstanding around "keep out" or safety zones, which Mr Duffy's directive mentions. "Safety zones are explicitly recognised in the Artemis Accords," she says. "They are a notification and consultation zone to be declared in advance in order to avoid harmful interference. "They must be temporary in nature and do not establish state jurisdiction, e.g. they cannot be enforced." Related Topics NASA Space