Italy approves 'world's longest suspension bridge'
Italy approves 'world's longest suspension bridge' It is believed the €13.5bn (£11.7 bn) project, which became a priority for Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's right-wing government, will help develop the impoverished south of Italy as it connects the mainland to Sicily. Wednesday 6 August 2025 15:54, UK Image: A general view shows the Strait of Messina, the planned site for a suspension bridge connecting Sicily to mainland Italy. Pic: Reuters Why you can trust Sky News Italy's government has approved the construction of what is tipped to become the world's longest suspension bridge. The long-delayed bridge would connect mainland Italy to the island of Sicily, which is currently only reachable via ferry. It is believed the €13.5bn (£11.7bn) project, which became a priority for Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's right-wing government, will help develop the impoverished south of Italy. The Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning and Sustainable Development (CIPESS) gave the final approval to the project at a meeting in Rome, the League party of deputy prime minister and transport minister Matteo Salvini said. Datawrapper This content is provided by Datawrapper, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Datawrapper cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Datawrapper cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Datawrapper cookies for this session only. Enable Cookies Allow Cookies Once It will have a total length of 3.67km (2.3 miles) and a suspended span of 3.3km (2.05 miles) and have two towers, each made entirely of highly resistant steel, standing 399m tall. That's despite concerns over the environmental impacts and the threat of mafia interference. There have also been concerns over such a bridge being built in an earthquake zone. Image: A graphic showing details of the proposed bridge produced by the WeBuild group which has been awarded the project. Pic: WeBuild Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free The designers say the bridge's roadway platform, which will sit 72m above the sea, can stand wind speeds of 292km/h (181mph). The project has been awarded to a consortium led by WeBuild, an Italian infrastructure group, which initially won the bid to build the bridge in 2006 before the project was cancelled in 2013. Read more from Sky News: Clintons subpoenaed in Epstein probe in 'rare escalation' Titan sub report reveals contributing factors that led to implosion Follow The World Listen to The World with Richard Engel and Yalda Hakim every Wednesday Tap to follow According to the Messina Strait Company overseeing the project, Wednesday's approval will allow the start of preliminary works, including archaeological and geological surveys. The company said the bridge will be completed in 2032. Preliminary work could begin later this summer with construction expected to start next year. Related Topics Italy