Couple charged with man's murder 'travelled with children for targeted attack'
Couple accused of murder of Ayowale Aledejana 'travelled with children for targeted attack' Ben Wazabanga and Ronique Belfon, both 23 and from Bedford, were arrested and charged with the murder of Ayowale Aladejana in New Cross on 2 August. Wednesday 6 August 2025 12:12, UK Image: Ayowale Aledejana, 26, from South Norwood, Croydon, was fatally stabbed. Pic: Met Police Why you can trust Sky News A couple charged with murder travelled with two children to carry out a "targeted attack" on a man on his doorstep, prosecutors have alleged. Ayowale Aladejana, 26, died at the scene in Monson Road, New Cross, southeast London, on 2 August after police were called to reports of a man with stab wounds at a residential address. Ben Wazabanga and Ronique Belfon, both 23 and from Bedford, were arrested and charged with murder. Wazabanga was also charged with possession of a knife. Both appeared at the Old Bailey on Wednesday, with Belfon appearing via a video-link from HMP Bronzefield. During their first crown court appearance, prosecutor Ben Holt told the court: "This would appear to be a targeted attack on the victim. "Both defendants travelled some distance with two small children in the car to carry out the attack." Image: Police at the scene. Pic: PA Mr Holt also told the court that the incident was captured on a Ring doorbell video camera and that before the incident, the defendants' car had allegedly circled the address a number of times. Prosecutors said that Wazabanga and Belfon had two children in the back of their car at the time, and had travelled around 50 miles to the property. The court heard Wazabanga - a Belgian national - then allegedly approached the victim's home, before Mr Aladejana was said to have opened his door and said: "Brother, why you coming to my home?" Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Read more from Sky News: Chancellor warned 'substantial tax rises' needed Girl, 3, allegedly murdered by her mother pictured Following an exchange, it is alleged that Wazabanga stabbed Mr Aladejana once in the chest before the defendants drove off. Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update. Tap here to follow Wazabanga and Belfon spoke only to confirm their identities before Judge Lynn Tayton KC set a timetable for the case. A plea hearing will take place on 23 October. A trial lasting four weeks has been provisionally scheduled for 13 April next year. Related Topics London