Case of suspect charged over gang sex attacks on two men in 2003 'under consideration' by Crown Office
Case of suspect charged over gang sex attacks on two men in Glasgow in 2003 'under consideration' by Crown Office Two young men were physically and sexually assaulted by three men in September 2003. On Thursday, a 56-year-old man was arrested and charged in connection with both incidents. Jenness Mitchell Scotland reporter @Jenster13 Wednesday 6 August 2025 11:44, UK Image: File pic: PA Why you can trust Sky News A suspect charged last week in connection with violent gang sex attacks on two men more than 20 years ago is yet to appear in court. The Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service (COPFS) told Sky News a report had been received from Police Scotland, with the circumstances of the case remaining "under consideration". Late on Saturday 13 September 2003, a 22-year-old man was physically and sexually assaulted by three men who had approached him in a park near to the River Kelvin in Glasgow. About two hours later, in the early hours of Sunday 14 September 2003, a 25-year-old man was also physically and sexually assaulted by three men. More than two decades on, a 56-year-old man was arrested and charged on Thursday in connection with both incidents. A Crown Office spokesperson said: "A standard prosecution report has been received by the procurator fiscal from Police Scotland in relation to a 56-year-old man and alleged criminal behaviour between September and November 2024. "The circumstances remain under consideration." More on Glasgow Death of boy, 10, who fell down Glasgow construction site manhole was 'avoidable', inquiry finds Man in court over 'disturbance' on easyJet flight from Luton to Glasgow Shona Stevens: Man in court charged with murder of Irvine woman in 1994 Related Topics: Glasgow Scotland Read more from Sky News: Girl, 3, allegedly murdered by her mother pictured Sean 'Diddy' Combs 'seeks pardon from Trump' Get Sky News on WhatsApp Follow our channel and never miss an update. Tap here to follow Police Scotland said the investigation remains ongoing to identify and trace two other male suspects. The force also urged those who may have been the victim of a similar attack to come forward. Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free Detective Inspector John Dowds said: "These incidents were frightening and distressing for the victims who have had to wait over 20 years for someone to be arrested in connection with what happened. "Time really is no barrier to a police investigation. We are committed to exploring all lines of enquiry and using advancements in forensics to ensure suspects are identified." Related Topics Glasgow Scotland