Canada shores up New Zealand trade with dairy concessions in face of U.S. pressure
Canada shores up New Zealand trade with dairy concessions in face of U.S. pressure Kate Helmore Agriculture and food policy reporter Published July 18, 2025 Open this photo in gallery: FILE PHOTO: Cows are seen near the fence of a pastoral farm near Auckland in this August 6, 2013 file photo. REUTERS/Nigel Marple//File PhotoNigel Marple/Reuters Share Save for later Please log in to bookmark this story.Log InCreate Free Account New Zealand should be able to sell more dairy per year into Canada as Ottawa makes changes to rules about imports in a bid to shore up trade between the two nations as the trade war with the U.S. wages on. The changes, announced Thursday, mean Canadian importers of New Zealand dairy will be able to access tariff rate quota to sell into the Canadian market faster and more efficiently starting next year. The move is expected to result in up to $128-million in extra trade, according to the New Zealand ministry of trade and investment. Dairy imports into Canada are controlled under the country’s supply management system. Imported products face steep levies that can surpass 250 per cent unless they have a tariff rate quota. The changes will move up the timeline by which importers need to return unused TRQ, which will then be reallocated to other companies. Canada will also introduce penalties for importers who do not use the TRQ they receive. The dairy industry’s outsized political influence, explained in charts The concession addresses New Zealand’s long-standing allegations that Canada’s TRQ allocation system has prevented the country from penetrating the market to the degree promised in the 2018 Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership. Last year, New Zealand threatened retaliatory tariffs unless Canada made changes. “This has been a long time coming and we believe it will make a positive difference,” said Kimberly Crewther, executive director of The Dairy Companies Association of New Zealand, in a press release. The deal raises questions about whether the U.S. – which is also demanding Canada make changes to the rules around dairy import licenses – will receive similar concessions. Prime Minister Mark Carney and U.S. President Donald Trump are currently negotiating a trade deal with a deadline of Aug. 1. At the same time, Canada is seeking to stabilize relations with other nations to diversify trade from the U.S. Mr. Carney said this week that a trade deal with the U.S. is unlikely to be tariff-free. “Canada and New Zealand, like a lot of countries, are trying to put their trade relationships on solid ground in the face of Trump’s actions,” said Matthew Kronby, a partner in the international trade and investment practice at Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP. Mr. Kronby has represented the Canadian dairy industry in trade disputes. We must protect supply management from the trade war New Zealand’s dairy exports to Canada have consistently fallen short of the volumes set out in the CPTPP. Some of this is a matter of market forces, said Mr. Kronby. A trade deal is not a guarantee of market demand. However, the island nation has also blamed Canada’s licensing import rules. In its submissions to the CPTPP panel in a dispute initiated in 2022, New Zealand claimed Canada’s TRQ allocation system was designed to direct quota away from those who would use it – retailers – and toward those who would not – processors. The panel found that Canada’s allocation system was in breach of its trade commitments. But until this week’s announcement, Canada failed to fully comply with the changes required, according to New Zealand. The changes bring an end to the dispute, despite falling short of New Zealand’s hopes for an “on demand” system that would give quota to the importers who want it. “This outcome shows how Canada and New Zealand, key CPTPP partners, worked together to use the mechanisms established under the trade agreement to resolve differences,” said a statement from Maninder Sidhu, Minister of International Trade, and Heath MacDonald, Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food. The announcement could have implications for the U.S., which has also launched disputes under the USMCA on the topic of import licenses. Like New Zealand, the U.S. says the TRQ allocation mechanism is too restrictive. It wants retailers and food service companies to be able to import American dairy, and blames the TRQ allocation system for why exporters do not meet export volumes. But its demands go further than New Zealand’s. “Canada cheated us from our right to export the USMCA quantities under the quota and we want every single pound to be restored and we want the people who are going to use the product to be the ones importing it, not the processors,” said Jaime Castaneda, executive vice-president for policy and strategy at the U.S. Dairy Export Council. The deal with New Zealand is a testament to the benefits of a rules-based trade approach, said Mr. Kronby. However, he added that because the U.S. has shifted away from that system, it is unlikely that Canada will give the country large concessions. “It is hard for me to imagine Canadian negotiators making fundamental changes to supply management in order to get a temporary – at best – semi or quasi deal with the Trump administration … an administration that’s demonstrated that even if you have a formal trade deal, they’re not going to abide by it.” Please enable JavaScript to view this content. Report an editorial error Report a technical issue Editorial code of conduct Related stories New Zealand and Australia seek closer military cooperation after Chinese live-fire naval exercise U.S. ITC investigating dairy protein dumping allegations against Canada’s supply management system The truth about the U.S. dairy industry New Zealand and Australia seek closer military cooperation after Chinese live-fire naval exercise U.S. ITC investigating dairy protein dumping allegations against Canada’s supply management system The truth about the U.S. dairy industry Follow related authors and topics Kate Helmore Follow You must be logged in to follow.Log InCreate free account Agriculture Industry Canada-US International Relations and Global Issues New Zealand Tariffs Trade and Commerce Authors and topics you follow will be added to your personal news feed in Following. Interact with The Globe