Immigration caps are contributing to lower asking rents in Canada, CMHC says
Immigration caps are contributing to lower asking rents in Canada, CMHC says Rachelle Younglai Real Estate Reporter Published July 8, 2025Updated July 14, 2025 Open this photo in gallery: A surge in new builds combined with limits on temporary foreign residents has led to a drop in average asking rents in some major cities.COLE BURSTON/The Canadian Press Share Save for later Please log in to bookmark this story.Log InCreate Free Account Canada’s caps on foreign students and new residents have contributed to reduced demand for rental housing and lower average asking rents in Vancouver, Calgary, Toronto and Halifax, according to a new study from the national housing agency. Over the past year, the average asking monthly rent fell between 2 per cent and 8 per cent in condos and rental-only apartments – also known as purpose-built rentals – said the report released Tuesday by Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp (CMHC). The drop was due to a surge in new condos and apartment buildings hitting the market along with limits on temporary foreign residents such as students and new permanent residents. As of April, temporary residents accounted for 7.1 per cent of the country’s total population, according to Statistics Canada. That compared with the peak of 7.4 per cent in October of last year. “It is quite evident on the demand side that there have been signs of weakening,” said Tania Bourassa-Ochoa, CMHC’s deputy chief economist, adding that there were stronger rental declines in regions with slower population growth. The average asking monthly rent for a two-bedroom apartment in Vancouver was $3,001 in the first quarter of this year, a 4.9-per-cent drop from the same period in 2024. In comparison, the average asking rent increased 4.5 per cent from 2023 to 2024, according to the study. Opinion: Why have a target for cutting temporary immigration if Canada can’t meet it? In Calgary, the average asking rent was $1,872 in the first quarter of this year, a 3.5-per-cent decline from the same period in 2024. That compared with a 17-per-cent rise in the previous year. In Toronto, the average asking rent was $2,522 in the first quarter of this year, a 3.7-per-cent drop over the same period in 2024. That compared with a 3.8-per-cent increase in the previous year. And in Halifax, the average asking rent was $2,171, a decline of 4.2 per cent from 2024 compared with an 8.7-per-cent increase in the previous year. For rental condos, which are typically owned by individual investors, the average asking monthly rent for a two-bedroom unit in Vancouver fell 4.8 per cent this year compared with an increase of 1.2 per cent in the previous year. In Calgary, the asking rent declined 3.6 per cent this year compared with a 10.7-per-cent rise in the previous year. In Toronto, the asking rent fell 1.7 per cent this year after a 0.5-per-cent decline in the previous year. And in Halifax, the decline was 8.3 per cent this year compared with an 11.7-per-cent rise in the previous year. Inside the race to convert vacant offices into rental homes The study said the cap on international students is influencing rental demand in British Columbia, Ontario and Nova Scotia. However, CMHC did not provide data for cities with a large proportion of post-secondary students such as London, Kingston and Kitchener in Ontario. The study builds on a recent quarterly report from the housing agency and Statistics Canada that surveys average asking rents across the country and is designed to reflect current rental rates. The government’s other rental reports include rates for housing units that are already occupied, which skews the current state of the rental market. Tell us about your experience in Canada's student housing market right now Are you a landlord in a college or university town struggling to fill apartments or a student looking for off-campus housing? Reporter Salmaan Farooqui is writing about the state of the student housing market as Canada cracks down on student visas – and we want to hear your experience. Submit your story using the form below or e-mail us at sfarooqui@globeandmail.com with "Student housing market" in the subject line if you'd like to be featured for an upcoming piece. Description (required) First Name (required) Last Name (required) Email (required) Location (required) The information from this form will only be used for journalistic purposes, though not all responses will necessarily be published. The Globe and Mail may contact you if someone would like to interview you for a story. By checking this box, I confirm the information I submitted is truthful and consent to its publication by The Globe and Mail. Submit Please enable JavaScript to view this content. Report an editorial error Report a technical issue Editorial code of conduct Related stories Canada is building lots of rental housing – and losing interest in condos New builds drive rent decreases, but also leave tenants vulnerable to steep hikes, experts say Average asking rents fall again in July to $2,121, report says Canada is building lots of rental housing – and losing interest in condos New builds drive rent decreases, but also leave tenants vulnerable to steep hikes, experts say Average asking rents fall again in July to $2,121, report says Follow related authors and topics Rachelle Younglai Follow You must be logged in to follow.Log InCreate free account Calgary Housing Immigration Toronto Vancouver Authors and topics you follow will be added to your personal news feed in Following. Interact with The Globe