For the boomers that can actually afford to retire in the current climate, research reveals the best spots to kick up your feet
Success·Retirement For the boomers that can actually afford to retire in the current climate, research reveals the best spots to kick up your feet By Jessica Coacci By Jessica CoacciSuccess Fellow Jessica CoacciSuccess Fellow Jessica Coacci is a reporting fellow at Fortune where she covers success. Prior to joining Fortune, she worked as a producer at CNN and CNBC. SEE FULL BIO Retirees could settle down in sunny Cyprus, where rent for a 3-bedroom apartment in the city center is around $1,850. Getty Images Gen Z and millennials may think of retirement as a far-fetched reality, but for boomers nearing the end of their careers, now’s the time to decide where to spend their pensions. Already, some boomers have had to put off retirement due to financial stress. For those who can afford to retire in the high-cost climate, international Hoxton Wealth has ranked the top 20 global destinations for UK citizens to retire in 2025. The study looked at the cost of living, property ownership, lifestyle, and healthcare, as well as visa access, taxation, and safety. Each destination was then scored from one to 100, which had been benchmarked against the UK, which scored 77 out of 100. Ireland scored as number one, earning an 87 out of 100 for its strong economy, safety, and ease of migration from the UK. In second place, Portugal and Cyprus tied for an 85, rating high for lifestyle and safety. 1) Ireland Ireland takes the crown as the best place to retire. Easiest from its post-Brexit migration, the strong economy is driven by tech, pharma, and finance. The country was also rated well for its safety, while being culturally familiar and English-speaking. For the cost of living, it’s recommended to have at least $50,000 to $100,000 a year. 2) Cyprus Second in line is Cyprus, which is praised for its lifestyle and safety. With a warm climate and a year-round lifestyle, there are expat-friendly hubs like Paphos, Limassol, and Larnaca. Expect also great outdoor living year-round. To settle down in Cyprus, expect rent prices of around $3,370 for a family of four, or around $1,850 for a 3-bedroom apartment in the city center. 3) Portugal Next in line with mild winters and hot summers, Portugal takes third place. The country was rated for its relaxed, friendly, and outdoor-oriented lifestyle in areas around popular expat hubs on the Algarve, Lisbon coast, the Silver coast, and Madeira. Initially, a family of four can cover their basic monthly expenses (excluding rent) with approximately $2,634. 4) Malta With a cost of living generally lower than the UK and affordable public services, Malta was ranked one of the best places to retire for its English common language, affordable healthcare, transport, and dining. Plus, the country is more affordable than many Western European nations — a family of four needs about $3,075 per month to cover basic expenses. 5) Malaysia Retiring in Malaysia has low housing and food costs. Cities like Penang and Kuala Lumpur boast thriving expat communities, making it easy to build a social life and settle in comfortably. Plus, Malaysia provides access to high-quality private healthcare at a fraction of UK or U.S. prices, making it a smart and affordable choice for retirees seeking both comfort and peace of mind. The average cost of retirement in Malaysia for a couple is $2,500, while for single individuals it’s $1,500. Renting in a modern high-rise with a pool, gym, 24-hour gated security, covered car space or two, shared communal area with a barbecue, will set you back around $750 to $1,000 per month. Introducing the 2025 Fortune Global 500, the definitive ranking of the biggest companies in the world. Explore this year's list.