'It's become a game for Israel' Gaza City residents fear takeover plans
'It's become a game for Israel': Gaza City residents fear takeover plans 2 days ago Share Save Rushdi Abualouf, Tom Bennett & Adnan El-Bursh BBC News Share Save 'A death sentence for us all': Gazans' fears over takeover plan Residents of Gaza City have told the BBC they are living in fear after the Israeli government announced plans to takeover the territory's largest city. "We are peaceful civilians. We have nothing to do with what is happening. Netanyahu knows that," said resident Abu Mohammad. "All this pressure is on us, not on Hamas. The movement's leaders and their families are abroad. They're not here among us." Under the plans announced last night - and agreed by Israel's security cabinet - the Israeli military would take control of Gaza City, home to hundreds of thousands of people, with a view, it says, to disarming Hamas, freeing the hostages, and establishing security control over the Strip. The plan has been met with heavy condemnation by much of the international community, with United Nations (UN) human rights chief Volker Türk saying it would "result in more massive forced displacement, more killing, more unbearable suffering, senseless destruction and atrocity crimes". One woman, speaking to a BBC team on a busy Gaza City street, said it was "going to be totally disastrous". AFP Israeli air strikes continued in Gaza City on Friday AFP "And it's going to be a death sentence to every Palestinian, I think the whole population in Gaza will be killed, either by bombardment or by hunger." Local resident Dr Hatem Qanoua said: "We're collapsing across every aspect of life: food, education, healthcare. Even if the war ends, we'll suffer for years." He added: "I'm very afraid for my children and all the innocent people who may die. I'm over fifty, if I die, it doesn't matter. But what about the children? They've never lived a normal life. They've only known death, destruction, and deprivation." More than 61,000 people have been killed in Gaza since the Israeli military began its operation, in response to the Hamas-led attack on southern Israel on 7 October 2023, in which about 1,200 people were killed and 251 others were taken hostage. Since the start of 2025, at least 99 people, including 29 children under the age of five, have died of malnutrition, according to the World Health Organization - which says its figures are likely underestimates. Anadolu via Getty Images UN agencies have warned of ongoing severe food shortages across the strip Many residents told the BBC they were fearful of being displaced from their homes - or the temporary shelters they are staying in - if the plan goes ahead. Sabrine Mahmoud said: "I will not leave my house. We will not live through displacement again. We left Gaza City for a whole year and endured the harshest humiliation in al-Mawasi. We will not repeat the mistake. Let them destroy the house over our heads – we will not leave." Abu Mustafa said Israel has "turned evacuation into a game: 'Leave here, now go there.'" Another resident, Um Ahmad Shalah, said: "We won't evacuate, because when we did, we saw torture. "We want the Arab countries, Trump, and all other nations to have mercy on us and stand with us, and feel for us. We cannot provide a kilo of flour for our children. We cannot afford to buy it." But some Palestinians also directed anger at Hamas, for what they said was a failure to negotiate an end to the war. Ehab al-Helou, Gaza City resident and social media influencer, wrote online: "I swear to God, Hamas leaders are living in a science fiction world. Have mercy on the people. Who are you to decide to sacrifice us?" Activist and resident Khalil Abu Shammala accused the group of "choosing suicide" and taking Gaza's population with it, saying Hamas was "clinging to power over our dead bodies". Other residents said they were indifferent to the new plan, saying the Israeli military already had control over their lives. "What are they threatening? Gaza is occupied. We are in a cage, they are surrounding the cage, and we are inside it," said one man. More on this story What we know about Israel's plan to take over Gaza City Israel approves plan to take control of Gaza City, signalling major escalation Netanyahu divides Israelis and allies with plan for new military push in Gaza Israel and the Palestinians: History of the conflict explained Middle East Israel & the Palestinians Israel-Gaza war Related What Israel's Gaza City takeover plan could mean for Palestinians Israel rejects international criticism of Gaza City takeover plan Israel and the Palestinians: History of the conflict explained More from the BBC 19 mins ago Boys clean beach to raise money for Gaza children "Every kid is a kid, and I didn't want to just keep sitting by and seeing that happen." 19 mins ago 3 hrs ago Thousands protest in Jerusalem over Israel's Gaza City occupation plan BBC correspondent Emir Nader speaks to demonstrators against the Israel's plans for Gaza, including a former soldier who says he no longer supports the government. 3 hrs ago 16 hrs ago Eleven more die from malnutrition in Gaza, Hamas-run health ministry says Others were reported killed by Israeli operations, as an upcoming deadline for the evacuation of Gaza City has been reported. 16 hrs ago 22 hrs ago 'I remain trapped,' says Gaza student in UK visa plea Haia Mohammed is ready to take up a scholarship in London but is unable to finish the visa process. 22 hrs ago 1 day ago Nagasaki mayor warns of nuclear war 80 years after atomic bomb attack Shiro Suzuki calls for a halt to armed conflicts on the anniversary of the atom bomb attack. 1 day ago