Want to attend the Master’s with a private chef and stay in a luxury home It’ll cost you $219,000
Lifestyle·Golf Want to attend the Master’s with a private chef and stay in a luxury home? It’ll cost you $219,000 By Chris Morris By Chris MorrisContributing Writer Chris MorrisContributing Writer Chris Morris is a contributing writer at Fortune, covering everything from general business news to the video game and theme park industries. SEE FULL BIO The Masters has released the “Official Masters Hospitality” brochure for 2026. A high-end experience for the golf tournament can run as high as $219,000. That includes luxury accommodations for 8 as well as transportation, a personal chef and tee times on the course. The Masters is the hottest ticket in golf, but if getting a close up view of Scottie Scheffler or Rory McIlroy isn’t good enough, Augusta National might have something even better – if you’ve got the money to pay for it. Augusta National has issued its brochure for the “Official Masters Hospitality” program for 2026 and a top-tier experience at the 2026 Masters will run $219,000. The Sports Business Journal reports that the program, entering its third year, not only offers a chance to watch the tournament but also allows up to eight people to stay at a luxury accommodation near the course, complete with transportation to and from Augusta National. You’ll also be able to take a clinic with instructors like David Leadbetter, have a reserved tee time at the course, and have custom catering from an in-house chef. Augusta National will also dedicate a staff member to your stay full-time as well as two dedicated drivers and vehicles. Here’s how pricing breaks down: Accommodations, which include the host house and a sleeper home, can run up to $98,000. You will get the sheets changed daily, however. Transportation will get you to and from Augusta National and all around town, but it will cost $29,000. Staffing costs can go as high as $13,000 for the dedicated staffer, drivers and people stocking the home. Catering, assuming you stay six nights and have eight guests, can hit $23,500. Tee Times come in at $13,500, assuming you play each of the three days with three friends (and enjoy lunch at the Augusta Country Club. Want to play at other clubs, like Sage Valley? That’ll run you another $7,000 (but playing Tree Farm will only run you $2,600). Introducing the 2025 Fortune Global 500, the definitive ranking of the biggest companies in the world. Explore this year's list.