Man charged with theft of Ozzy tribute flowers
Man charged with theft of Ozzy tribute flowers 2 days ago Share Save Chloe Hughes BBC News, West Midlands Share Save BBC Fans left thousands of floral tributes and messages to the Black Sabbath frontman A man has been charged in connection with the theft of flowers left as a tribute to Ozzy Osbourne in Birmingham, police have said. Osbourne, 76, died on 22 July from a reported heart attack, and thousands of floral tributes, as well as cards and other items, were left at or around a bench in the city centre commemorating the formation of heavy metal band Black Sabbath, for which Osbourne was the frontman. West Midlands Police said Parviz Jafari, 45, has been charged with theft, and would appear before magistrates on 3 September. The force said he was arrested on 2 August after officers were alerted to a theft at the Broad Street location. On Monday, Birmingham City Council began the task of collecting the tributes to hand them over to the family. They items were to be gathered at a secret location for photographing and collating before being passed on, the authority said. Some of the flowers are to be scattered by his grave. Getty Images Ozzy Osbourne made his final journey through his home city on 30 July The Osbourne family viewed the tributes during a procession on 30 July, in which the heavy metal star's body was carried through his home city a final time. Black Sabbath played a farewell gig at Villa Park in the city on July 5, just under three weeks before Osbourne died. It was announced on Thursday that the BBC would broadcast a film about the last chapter of the singer's life. Follow BBC Birmingham on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. More on this story Floral tributes to be scattered at Ozzy's grave Family and fans give Ozzy Osbourne emotional send-off Ozzy documentary shows 'last chapter' of his life Ozzy Osbourne Birmingham West Midlands Police Related 'Bloodstock wouldn't exist without Ozzy Osbourne' Mourning metal fans' Ozzy festival tribute Ozzy documentary shows 'last chapter' of his life More from the BBC 23 hrs ago Hit-and-run crash survivor wants forensics career Caitlin, 16, overcomes re-learning to walk to continue striving for the job she is passionate about. 23 hrs ago 1 day ago Tower block evacuated after flooding A water leak in the sprinkler system affects four floors of the 17-storey building, managers confirm. 1 day ago 2 days ago Beauty spot parking consultation formally launched Birmingham City Council said the parking charges would go towards the upkeep of the parks. 2 days ago 2 days ago No second series for Steven Knight drama The Steven Knight series for the BBC delved into the ska and two tone music scene in the 1980s. 2 days ago 2 days ago Suspected people smuggling arrest after BBC probe Officers say they arrested a 22-year-old Iranian in Acocks Green in Birmingham. 2 days ago