Wildfires force Turkey to close key waterway
Wildfires force Turkey to close key waterway 2 days ago Share Save Jaroslav Lukiv BBC News Share Save Anadolu Agency via Getty Images Together with the Bosporus Strait, the Dardanelles serves as a key route for commercial shipping between Europe and Asia The Dardanelles Strait has been temporarily shut to maritime traffic due to forest fires raging in north-western Turkey, the country's transport ministry has said. The major international waterway was shut as a precautionary measure as the blazes spread near the city of Canakkale where a number of residents were evacuated. Turkish firefighters have been deployed to try to contain the fires. Specialist firefighting planes and helicopters are also in use. The Dardanelles links the Aegean Sea to the Sea of Marmara. Together with the Bosporus Strait, it serves as a vital route for commercial shipping between Europe and Asia. Nearly 46,000 vessels crossed the Dardanelles in 2024, according to official data. Strong winds fanned the wildfires, helping them spread in hot dry weather, local officials said. Efforts to extinguish the blazes from "both the air and ground" were ongoing, Canakkale's provincial governor - quoted in Turkiye Today - said on Friday. Canakkale's main airport is closed to passenger flights, but firefighting and search and rescue aircraft are still operating from there. Hundreds of wildfires have broken out across Turkey this summer, forcing tens of thousands of people to evacuate their homes. In July, at least 10 forestry and rescue workers were killed while battling wildfires in the country's central Eskisehir province. Wildfires rage in Greece and Turkey as extreme heat persists Europe Turkey Asia Wildfires Shipping industry Related 'Is my secret camera working?' - posing as a migrant to infiltrate a cross-Channel gang Firefighters battle to contain Greek wildfires Brussels considers recruiting ferrets to tackle rat population More from the BBC 5 hrs ago Billionaire inheritance feud spotlights India's messy family succession Weeks after Sunjay Kapur's death, the question of succession has become the subject of media speculation. 5 hrs ago 1 day ago Seoul's 'convenience stores' fighting loneliness From comforting bowls of ramen to company, these stores are South Korea's latest effort to fight loneliness. 1 day ago 1 day ago One dead as wildfires rage in southern Greece Across the country, more than 50 agricultural and forest fires have broken out in the past 24 hours - one of the worst days this summer. 1 day ago 2 days ago Watch: Aircrews battle rapidly spreading Canyon Fire in California The wildfire is moving east into LA County with thousands of residents ordered to evacuate. 2 days ago 2 days ago Crews tackle heath wildfire for sixth day Hotspots are still visible at Newton Heath where crews are spending a sixth day. 2 days ago