Devlin's Hearts future will 'take care of itself'
Devlin's Hearts future will 'take care of itself' Image source, SNS Published 8 August 2025 Hearts midfielder Cammy Devlin says his contract situation will "take care of itself" as he enters the final year of his Tynecastle deal. Devlin is now in his fifth season at the club, and Hearts took up the option to extend his stay last year, but as it stands he will be free to speak to other clubs come the start of 2026. The Australia international has recently been praised by new head coach Derek McInnes, but the 27-year-old admits he doesn't "really like thinking about" his contract potentially expiring. "I was in a similar position this time last year in terms of coming to the last year of my contract, and I don't really like thinking about it," he said. "I think if you just perform well, if I'm fortunate enough to play the games on the weekend, I'll just always put my head down and work as hard as I can and I think it will take care of itself, whether it's a positive or a negative. "For me personally, I just come into work every day, work as hard as I can and hopefully get picked to play on the weekends." Devlin says there is a palpable buzz around the club amid Tony Bloom's investment and a winning start to the season in League Cup and Premiership, with a trip to face Dundee United up next on Sunday. The recent influx of incomings, however, may have put any contract renewal on the backburner for now. "Yeah, there's always ongoing talks," Devlin said when asked if there had been discussions with the club. "They've spoken to my agent, not me. "There's been a lot going on with, obviously, Tony Bloom coming in. "Obviously, the transfer window's open, so there's been so many new players coming in and things like that happening, so I don't think that's the focus now. "With Tony Bloom coming in, there's a lot of talk going on about that, and there's definitely a lot of excitement around Hearts. "I feel like there always should be because of the size of the club. When you're playing football, you play to win, so I think when you're at a club this size, you want to be ambitious. You want to win things, so I think it's definitely exciting." Related topics Heart of Midlothian