NCA to investigate police officer sex abuse claims
NCA to investigate police officer sex abuse claims 2 days ago Share Save David Spereall BBC News, Yorkshire Ed Thomas UK editor Share Save Getty Images Five women who were exploited by grooming gangs in Rotherham as children say they were also abused by police officers The National Crime Agency (NCA) will take over an investigation into allegations that South Yorkshire Police officers sexually abused children in Rotherham. The BBC reported in July that five women who were exploited by grooming gangs as children have said they were also abused by police officers in the town in the 1990s to early 2000s. South Yorkshire Police (SYP) initially said it would look at the claims, but subsequently faced calls to be removed from the investigation in the interests of transparency. The NCA said it would ensure "victims remain at the heart of this investigation". Three former police officers have so far been arrested in connection with the allegations. Assistant Chief Constable Hayley Barnett said the force had requested that the NCA take over the investigation. Women abused as children by Rotherham gangs say police also sexually assaulted them ACC Barnett said: "Concerns around the mode of investigation have put the force, and not the victim survivors, at the centre of the narrative, and this fails to align with a truly victim-centred investigation. "I am also mindful there is a chance that some victim survivors may be suffering in silence and unwilling to make a report as a result of SYP's involvement." The inquiry will be carried out by officers from Operation Stovewood - the NCA's wider investigation into non-recent child sexual abuse in Rotherham. Prof Alexis Jay, who led the landmark 2014 report which exposed the scale of offending by grooming gangs in the town between 1997 and 2013, had told the BBC she was "shocked" the force was investigating its own former officers. Stephen Fildes/BBC Prof Alexis Jay previously said SYP should not be leading an investigation into its own former officers Shadow Home Secretary Chris Philp had also called for a separate body to lead the probe, saying there could be no "conflicts of interest". He said: "It is right that the National Crime Agency are taking over this case. "It would be completely inappropriate for the same force accused of abuse to now be investigating itself." Switalskis, the solicitors representing survivors, welcomed the development as a "step in the right direction". Among the witness accounts reported by the BBC was the testimony of one woman who said she was raped from the age of 12 by a serving SYP officer in a marked police car. He would threaten to hand her back to the gang if she did not comply, she said. Philip Marshall, head of Operation Stovewood at the NCA, said the agency would "continue the extensive work" the force had begun on the inquiry. "Though our investigation will be independent of South Yorkshire Police, we will work closely with the force and the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) to ensure that victims receive the best service and support as the investigation is transferred to us," he said. 'Step in the right direction' Last month, law firm Switalskis said it had hoped that alleged abuse by officers would have been unearthed following Operation Linden - a long-running IOPC investigation into how police responded to child sexual abuse in Rotherham. In 2022, Operation Linden concluded that SYP fundamentally failed in its duty to protect vulnerable children and young people during the period under investigation. In a statement on Friday, Switalskis said: "We are pleased that SYP has decided to hand the investigation into allegations of child sexual abuse, corruption, and the facilitation of abuse by former SYP officers to the NCA. "However, we remain concerned that the investigation is still being directed by the IOPC, given the concerns raised by whistleblowers in relation to Operation Linden earlier this year. "Nevertheless, we view this as a step in the right direction and hope that more survivors will now feel able to come forward to the NCA." Operation Stovewood is investigating non-recent child sex abuse in Rotherham The IOPC said it had responded to "concerns about SYP's involvement and a perception of a conflict of interest". It said it was a joint decision with SYP to ask the NCA to take over. The IOPC said that "while we remain satisfied there was no conflict of interest with SYP", it believed that "transferring the investigation to the NCA may provide further reassurance to victim-survivors". Listen to highlights from South Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. More on this story Women abused as children by Rotherham gangs say police also sexually assaulted them Force 'cannot investigate itself on sex abuse reports' Rotherham child abuse scandal Rotherham South Yorkshire Police Related Force 'cannot investigate itself on sex abuse reports' Women abused as children by Rotherham gangs say police also sexually assaulted them Man found guilty of repeatedly raping schoolgirl More from the BBC 2 days ago E-bike rider stabbed man in back as he rode past Henry Emmingham, who rode off after the attack, has been jailed for two years and six months. 2 days ago 3 days ago Garden waste collection halted over staff shortage Rotherham Council says it is suspending brown bin collections for the rest of August. 3 days ago 3 days ago Family praise club legends after hospice visit Former Rotherham United stars Ronnie Moore and John Breckin visited Wayne Ryalls at his hospice. 3 days ago 4 days ago PC went on dates with woman he met on call-out A panel finds PC Andrew Curry used information acquired in his job to pursue the relationship. 4 days ago 5 days ago 'Young market traders are rare - we love the job' Alex Ward, 27, and his 31-year-old brother Tom are following in their great-grandparents' footsteps. 5 days ago