Hundreds pay tribute to UK's oldest WW2 veteran Donald Rose
Hundreds pay tribute to UK's oldest WW2 veteran 2 days ago Share Save Dan Hunt BBC News, East Midlands Share Save Jacob King/PA Wire People lined the streets of Ilkeston for Donald Rose's funeral Hundreds of mourners gathered to say a final goodbye to the UK's oldest man and oldest World War Two veteran, who died at the age of 110 last month. The death of Donald Rose was announced by Erewash Borough Council on 11 July. Mr Rose, who served in the Queen's Royal Regiment as a sniper, survived a bullet to the leg in the D-Day landings. On Friday, his hearse was escorted by more than 100 motorcycles from Morrisons in Ilkeston, Derbyshire, to Ilkeston Town's football ground, where a service took place. Jacob King/PA Wire Mr Rose was the UK's oldest man at the time of his death There was then a parade in Bath Street before military personnel, veterans and the public saluted him at the cenotaph in the town centre. The veteran, originally from Westcott, Surrey, joined the regiment at the age of 25 and went on to train as a sniper. Mr Rose served in North Africa and Europe and was part of the division that liberated the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in northern Germany. He was eventually a recipient of France's highest award - the French Legion of Honour. In May, Mr Rose, who was a resident at the Canal Vue Care Home in Ilkeston, was awarded the Freedom of Erewash. PA Media Mr Rose joined the Queen's Royal Regiment at the age of 25 Addressing a crowd of people gathered at the service, John Wallace, a parade marshal for the Royal British Legion in Derbyshire, said: "Don had an interest in motorbikes. "It is fitting that Don's final journey is accompanied by so many like-minded people, and it is a wonderful tribute. "He epitomised all that was great and all that we have to be grateful for to his generation." The service was told that the great-grandfather joined the Army because, in his own words, "they needed me to fight" and "I wanted to save this country from the fascists". Jacob King/PA Wire Mr Rose was the UK's oldest World War Two veteran Jacob King/PA Wire A biker escort was held from Morrisons to Ilkeston Town Football Club Jacob King/PA Wire A service took place at the club's football ground Jacob King/PA Wire Mr Rose received multiple honours in his life Follow BBC Derby on Facebook, on X, or on Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2210. More on this story WW2 veteran Donald 'leaves such a legacy behind' UK's oldest WW2 veteran Donald Rose dies aged 110 UK's oldest WW2 veteran receives freedom honour UK's oldest man to celebrate 110th birthday Derbyshire Ilkeston Related 'Bloodstock wouldn't exist without Ozzy Osbourne' Special needs overdiagnosed, says council leader Appeal as murderer fails to return to open prison More from the BBC 14 hrs ago Dispersal order issued over anti-social behaviour It was announced on Saturday afternoon and will remain in place until 19:00 BST on Sunday. 14 hrs ago 6 days ago 'My son has a rare condition only 15 people have' Harrison's family are trying to secure a specialist car seat so he can travel without pain. 6 days ago 28 Jul 2025 'General housekeeping' road closures planned A summer-long programme of work is taking place across Derbyshire's dual carriageways. 28 Jul 2025 25 Jul 2025 Man found guilty of murder after drug deal stabbing Charles Hartle, 18, stabbed Noah Smedley once through the heart during a cannabis deal. 25 Jul 2025 16 Jul 2025 Murder trial shown moment man was stabbed to death A jury is shown footage of the moment Noah Smedley was fatally stabbed in the street. 16 Jul 2025