Manchester Evening News Icon Sport Football Manchester United FC Carlos Baleba decision made amid £100m transfer to Manchester United claim The latest Man Utd transfer news as they continue to be linked with Brighton midfielder Carlos Baleba. Comments Sport Josh Holland Sport Central Audience Writer 17:45, 09 Aug 2025 Carlos Baleba is missing from Brighton's squad vs Wolfsburg.(Image: Getty Images) Manchester United-linked Carlos Baleba has been left out of Brighton's squad for this afternoon's pre-season friendly against Wolfsburg. ‌ The midfielder, 21, has emerged as a candidate to become the club's fifth signing of the summer at Old Trafford after Matheus Cunha, Bryan Mbeumo, Benjamin Sesko and Diego Leon have all been added to Ruben Amorim's squad. ‌ Reports this week have stated that United have made contact with Brighton via intermediaries to explore the conditions over a potential move. The Seagulls are understood to be adamant om keeping Baleba at the AMEX Stadium for another year, at least. ‌ United have been linked with a host of midfielders this summer with that position said to be one that Amorim is keen to bolster. Doubts over Casemiro's status at this level remain present and Manuel Ugarte is yet to cement a spot in the line-up since his move 12 months ago. Baleba, who would likely cost between £100million and £115million, is reportedly ready to say yes to a move to Old Trafford if a financial package is agreed between the two clubs. It remains to be seen whether that will be the case with just three weeks left of the window. The Seagulls are playing their final pre-season match of the summer before they kick-off their Premier League schedule against Fulham next weekend, and Baleba was nowhere to be seen. Article continues below However, the midfielder has missed a large portion of pre-season due to an ongoing knee injury. After the last three friendlies, Fabian Hurzeler said he hoped Baleba would return to training this week. The Sussex Express have reported that Baleba's absence against the Bundesliga outfit is down to his injury. It's claimed the Cameroonian is working his way back to match fitness. ‌ Here at The Manchester Evening News, we are dedicated to bringing you the best Manchester United coverage and analysis. Make sure you don't miss out on the latest United news by joining our free WhatsApp group. You can get all the breaking news and best analysis sent straight to your phone by clicking here to subscribe. You can also subscribe to our free newsletter service. Click here to be sent all the day's biggest stories. Article continues below And, finally, if you would rather listen to our expert analysis then make sure to check out our Manchester is Red podcast, featuring The Samuel Luckhurst Show and The Midweek Debate. Our shows are available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify and Apple Podcasts, and you can also watch along on YouTube. Get United transfer news and updates on WhatsApp! Our team of Manchester United experts are on top of all the goings-on at Old Trafford for this week and beyond, and you can get the latest team news, injury updates, reaction and analysis along with inside information to your phone by joining our new free WhatsApp community. You can also join the 50,000 (and growing!) band of United fans who are following our WhatsApp Channel. Sign up to our community here, and join our WhatsApp channel here. -- We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice. Follow Manchester Evening News: Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram Comments ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ Manchester United FCSummer transfer windowCarlos BalebaManchester United Transfer News