Suspect In Killing Of 4 In Montana Bar Caught After Week-Long Manhunt
Suspect In Killing Of 4 In Montana Bar Caught After Week-Long Manhunt The man accused of fatally shooting four people at a Montana bar has been caught after a week-long manhunt, Governor Greg Gianforte said. REUTERS Aug 8, 2025, 05:51 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT Police tape surrounds The Owl Bar in of Anaconda, Mont., on Friday, Aug. 1, 2025, following a fatal shooting. (Joseph Scheller/The Montana Standard via AP) Joseph Scheller via AP Aug 8 (Reuters) - A U.S. Army veteran accused of fatally shooting four people at a bar in the small Montana town of Anaconda earlier this month has been caught after a week-long manhunt, Governor Greg Gianforte said on Friday. The suspect, Michael Brown, 45, was captured “near the search area in Anaconda” around 2 p.m. local time on Friday, Montana Attorney General Austin Knudsen said in a statement. Advertisement “The Anaconda shooter Michael Brown has been apprehended,” Gianforte said on X. “I am proud of the unrelenting law enforcement effort this week to find and arrest Michael Paul Brown,” Knudsen said. Brown had been sought in the shooting at Anaconda’s Owl Bar, which killed bartender Nancy Lauretta Kelley, 64, and customers Daniel Edwin Baillie, 59, David Allen Leach, 70, and Tony Wayne Palm, 74. Officials have said they did not know of any motive for the killing. Family members have told local media that Brown, who served in the Iraq War, had a history of mental illness. Advertisement Kristian Kelley, the daughter of slain bartender Nancy Kelley, told CBS News that Brown “was somebody that needed some serious resources. “He had some mental health issues as well as PTSD from being in the military,” Kelley told CBS. “I’ve never known him to be violent. He was a person who would tell pretty strange stories and different things like that.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. The U.S. Marshals Service had posted a $7,500 reward for any information leading to Brown’s capture after he vanished, sparking a search in nearby mountains. Advertisement (Reporting by Ismail Shakil in Ottawa and Brad Brooks in Colorado; Editing by Leslie Adler) Related MontanaGreg Gianforteanaconda Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In U.S. News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post