Trump-Putin Summit To Take Place 'In Coming Days,' Russia Says
Trump-Putin Summit To Take Place 'In Coming Days,' Russia Says One Trump critic warned that Putin may use the meeting to "bring things back in his direction." By Marita Vlachou Breaking News Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 07:53 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING President Donald Trump and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin may be meeting in person “in the coming days,” the Kremlin said Thursday, as critics worry the Russian leader could be setting up a trap for the U.S. Putin aide Yuri Ushakov said the Russians have begun “concrete preparations” for the upcoming summit in coordination with their U.S. colleagues. Advertisement “At the suggestion of the American side, an agreement was essentially reached to hold a bilateral meeting at the highest level in the coming days, that is, a meeting between President Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump,” Ushakov said, according to the Interfax news agency cited by Reuters. The Kremlin aide did not disclose any further details, including the location of the summit. If the meeting goes ahead, it would be the first time a current U.S. president has sat down with Putin since his meeting with then-President Joe Biden in Geneva in June 2021, months ahead of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Ushakov added that Russia had been informed of the proposal for a three-way meeting between Trump, Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy but notably said Moscow had no comment on the prospect. Advertisement During a call with European leaders, including Zelenskyy, on Wednesday, Trump said he planned to meet Putin shortly before holding a three-way summit between himself, Putin and Zelenskyy, according to The New York Times. No European leaders would join the talks as part of the plan discussed by the president. Trump later told reporters that there’s a “very good prospect” the three-way meeting will happen. The U.S. president has previously conceded Putin may not actually want to end his war in Ukraine and “may be tapping [him] along.” Asked about what gives him confidence that Putin is or isn’t doing the same this time around, Trump replied: “Can’t answer the question yet. I’ll tell you in a matter of weeks, maybe less.” Trump former national security adviser John Bolton told CNN’s “The Source,” it will be “interesting” to see the arrangements made for the Trump-Putin meeting. Advertisement “I think Putin will see it as an opportunity,” Bolton said of the potential sit-down. “I think he knows he’s deliberately or inadvertently pushed Trump a little too far, and he’ll have some ideas about how to bring things back in his direction.” Plans about the meeting surfaced following envoy Steve Witkoff’s trip to Moscow Wednesday during which he held three-hour talks with Putin. Witkoff’s Russia visit came a few days ahead of a Friday deadline set by Trump for Putin to end the war in Ukraine or face fresh economic penalties. Advertisement Trump has already doubled his tariffs on India, citing its purchase of Russian oil, which the U.S. said has helped fuel Putin’s war. Meanwhile, Zelenskyy said he has several calls planned with European leaders Thursday with the goal of achieving “real progress on the path to peace and ensuring Ukraine’s independence under any circumstances.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Zelenskyy also suggested discussions are underway regarding various leader summits with the goal of ending the war. Advertisement “Ukraine is not afraid of meetings and expects the same brave approach from the Russian side,” he wrote on X, formerly Twitter. “It is time we ended the war. Thank you to everyone who is helping.” Related Donald Trump Russia Vladimir Putin Zelenskyy Moves To Restore Independence Of Ukraine Anti-Graft Agencies After Mass Protests Russia Launches Major Aerial Attack On Kyiv Hours Before High-Level Ukraine Meeting Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post