Zohran Mamdani Slams Possible Trump Involvement In NYC Mayoral Race
Zohran Mamdani Slams Possible Trump Involvement In NYC Mayoral Race His comments follow a New York Times report suggesting the president was considering whether to intervene. By Li Zhou Aug 7, 2025, 07:26 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING New York City’s Democratic mayoral nominee, Zohran Mamdani, slammed the possibility of Donald Trump getting involved in the election after a Wednesday report from The New York Times suggested the president was weighing the idea — and had held a call with former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo. “This should be a race about ... who will make this city affordable, who will ensure that each and every New Yorker is safe, who will bring our city forward, not an audition for the best jester for Donald Trump and his billionaire supporters,” Mamdani told reporters on Wednesday. Advertisement The Times report noted that Trump was debating whether he should intervene in the mayoral contest to block Mamdani’s ascent, and said he had spoken about the race with Cuomo, though it did not provide specifics about what was discussed or state that the two were working together. In response to the report, Cuomo spokesperson Rich Azzopardi told CBS News, “The Governor and the President have not spoken in some time,” adding, “As far as I know, they have not discussed the race.” Trump also said he hadn’t spoken with Cuomo after reporters questioned him following the article’s publication. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The Times report added that Trump had spoken with a pollster and a former New York City Council president who relayed that Cuomo could be a competitive independent candidate against Mamdani. It did not specify if the president would intercede or what form that would take since an endorsement likely wouldn’t help a candidate in the heavily Democratic city. Advertisement Those who want Trump to play a role hope that he would pressure one of the remaining candidates to drop out, so they could consolidate the moderate, anti-Mamdani vote, The New York Times reports. Trump and other Republicans have previously lobbed xenophobic attacks on Mamdani, falsely accusing him of being in the U.S. illegally and describing him as a “communist.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Trump has also said that he thinks Cuomo has a “good shot” in the race. Cuomo’s spokesperson gave CBS arguments for why Trump might prefer Mamdani or current Mayor Eric Adams. Advertisement Mamdani said Wednesday: “Whatever Donald Trump seeks to do to influence the outcome of this election, I have more faith in New Yorkers themselves.” Related Donald Trump New York City Andrew Cuomo Zohran Mamdani Zohran Mamdani Laughs Away Trump Labeling Him A 'Communist' Zohran Mamdani Stuns Andrew Cuomo In NYC Mayoral Primary Cuomo Stays In NYC Mayor Race As Third-Party Candidate Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In U.S. News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post