This Age Group Is Most Likely To Fall For Conspiracy Theories (It's Not Who You Think)
This Age Group Is Most Likely To Fall For Conspiracy Theories (It's Not Who You Think) The researchers of a new study were 'quite surprised' that it was this group most likely to fall prey to conspiracy beliefs such as QAnon and the flat Earth theory. By Brittany Wong Senior Lifestyle Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 07:00 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT Rick Loomis via Getty Images It's younger people, not older people, who are more prone to buy into conspiracy beliefs, a new study shows. When it comes to falling down a rabbit hole with conspiracy theories ― QAnon, the “Plandemic” conspiracy theory ― it’s young people, not older demographics, who are more prone to buy into such beliefs. Age is the most significant predictor of conspiracy beliefs among all other factors, according to a study that was recently published in the journal Political Psychology. And it’s people under 35 who are consistently more likely to endorse conspiratorial ideas than any other age group. Advertisement “From age 35 on, susceptibility to conspiracy theories decreases relatively steadily across older age groups,” said Jean-Nicolas Bordeleau, a research Fellow at the Jeff Bleich Centre for Democracy and Disruptive Technologies, at Flinders University in Adelaide, Australia. Political conspiracy theories are pushing more and more family relationships to the breaking point. It’s not uncommon to hear about siblings who are estranged over extremist political views or people who “lost” their family members to QAnon, a conspiracy theory that posits that a satanic cabal of elites and pedophiles is working behind the scenes to orchestrate global events and enslave children. Conspiracy theories increasingly affect our elections, too; QAnon believers came out heavily for President Trump in recent elections; to them, Trump is a white-knight figure destined to bring down the aforementioned cabal. (That’s what’s made his current handling of the Jeffrey Epstein files such a divisive issue for many.) Advertisement And voter fraud conspiracy theories drove thousands to violently storm the Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, an act of domestic terrorism that threatened the nation’s peaceful transfer of power. Given the growing impact of conspiracy theories in our political and personal lives, Bordeleau and Daniel Stockemer, a political studies professor at the University of Ottawa in Canada, thought it was high time to find out what factors most influence people buying in. “We were really curious to understand why some people adhere to some really unbelievable narratives like the flat Earth theory and QAnon,” Bordeleau told HuffPost. “Our results don’t imply that all young people are attracted to all conspiracy theories, but what we can demonstrate is that younger people are more likely to believe various conspiracy theories than older individuals. Advertisement If you assumed it might be Boomers who most frequently fall into conspiracy theory traps ― there are countless depressing stories in online forums of grown children detailing how their Fox News-watching parents fell into a QAnon rabbit hole after “doing research” ― you’re not alone. Bordeleau figured that would be the case, too. Younger citizens being more conspiratorial as a whole “definitely goes against the typical stereotype of the older uncle at the Christmas table exposing the latest conspiracy theories,” Bordeleau said. “Initially, we were quite surprised to see that younger people were most likely to believe in conspiracies.” Jose Gonzalez Buenaposada via Getty Images Given the growing impact of conspiracy theories in our political and personal lives, Bordeleau and Daniel Stockemer, a political studies professor at the University of Ottawa in Canada, thought it was high time to find out what factors most influence people buying in. Advertisement To find all this out, the researchers conducted a meta analysis ― a kind of “study of studies” ― which synthesized the results of 191 peer-reviewed articles published between 2014 and 2024. This huge dataset, which included over 374,000 participants, suggested a “robust” association between young age and belief in conspiracies, Bordeleau said. “To confirm that, we ran our own original multinational survey of more than 6,000 people across six diverse countries: Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, the U.S. and South Africa,” he explained. Advertisement Regardless of the country, the results were the same: Age was the most potent predictor of conspiratorial belief systems, more than a person’s gender, level of education or income. So why are younger generations more intrigued by conspiracy theories? Bordeleau and Stockemer think there are three interconnected reasons. “First, the fact that younger people have a deep sense of political disaffection and alienation,” Bordeleau said. “Second, there’s a tendency for younger people to adopt an activist style of political participation and be exposed to more radical environments, where conspiracy theories thrive.” (QAnon originated on the dark web first, with various ideas circulating on 4chan and 8chan as early as 2017.) Advertisement Lastly, there’s the self-confidence factor, or lack thereof. Self-esteem fluctuates throughout our lives, but studies show that adolescence tends to be a period of heightened lower self-esteem, particularly for young girls. “Low self-esteem can partly explain why younger people are attracted to conspiracy theories,” Bordeleau said. “It becomes a way to cope with feelings of powerlessness.” Cavan Images via Getty Images Age more than any other demographic factors the researchers looked at ― a person’s gender, level of education or income ― was the most powerful predictor of consfpiratorial belief systems. Advertisement Bordeleau said he’d love to further research the socialization component of conspiracy beliefs: how young people are exposed to these narratives, for instance, and whether or not social pressures play a part. On a wider social level, he hopes that more time and resources are put into looking for ways to help young people become more media literate. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “It might be through education reform or targeted interventions or policy changes, but we are committed to leveraging our research to help,” he said. Advertisement Related QAnon Conspiracy Theories flat earth MAGA Won't Let Trump Off The Hook For The Epstein Files — And Psychologists Know Why Senate Confirms Conspiracy Theorist With Ties To Far-Right Extremists To Top Counterterrorism Job GOP Senator Says Timing Of Tulsi Gabbard's Obama Conspiracy Push Seems Curious Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Good Life A completely essential daily guide to achieving the good life. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close MORE IN Wellness MORE IN LIFE NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Wellness. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post