U.S. Security Contractors in Gaza Risk War Crimes Charges, Democrats Say
Worked Security For GHF in Gaza? Beware of War Crime Charges, Democrats Say. Democrats said veterans supporting Trump’s Gaza aid effort face legal risks for “what amounts to military operations on behalf of the Israeli government.” Matt Sledge July 31 2025, 5:03 p.m. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp Palestinians gather at an aid distribution point in a desperate attempt to receive limited flour supplies in Gaza City, Gaza, on July 29, 2025. Photo: Ali Jadallah/Anadolu via Getty Images Security firms employing U.S. military veterans for a controversial food distribution operation in Gaza have exposed them to the risk of criminal charges under U.S. laws against war crimes, torture, and forced deportation, four Democrats in Congress said Thursday. In a letter to the two firms’ CEOs, Sen. Peter Welch, D-Vt., and three other lawmakers said they were “horrified” by reporting about the companies’ “deadly” security operations on behalf of the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation. “We are deeply concerned that you may have failed to alert your personnel — or investors — of the immense legal risks they face.” The members of Congress say that news reports and firsthand witnesses indicated employees for Safe Reach Solutions and UG Solutions were “sent to Gaza armed for combat” and directed by Israeli officials to use lethal force. “As a result, we are deeply concerned that you may have failed to alert your personnel — or investors — of the immense legal risks they face for conducting what amounts to military operations on behalf of the Israeli government on land outside of the State of Israel,” the lawmakers say. Most Read Team Leader at Gaza Aid Distribution Sites Belongs to Anti-“Jihad” Motorcycle Club, Has Crusader Tattoos Sam Biddle, Matt Sledge The Week the World Woke Up to the Genocide in Gaza Jonah Valdez An Unexpected Path to Hold War Criminals Accountable Tyler McBrien They asked the companies to answer a series of questions about whether they had warned staffers about their legal risks, including from international courts, and to preserve documents related to their interactions with the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation. Safe Reach Solutions and UG Solutions did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The letter represents the latest ratcheting up of congressional pressure — so far all from Democrats — on the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation and the contractors supporting its operations in the Middle East. Founded only in February, the foundation became the main conduit for U.S.- and Israeli-backed aid into Gaza after Israel lifted a total blockade at the end of May. Related The Rising Death Toll of the U.S.–Israel Aid Distribution Plan in Gaza The foundation’s decision to employ armed contractors at its sites, and its close cooperation with Israel, have drawn widespread condemnation from other aid groups who say they violate core humanitarian principles. Some of the security contractors supporting its operations are former U.S. service members, including Special Operations veterans. Welch was joined by Sen. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., and Democratic U.S. Reps. Joaquin Castro of Texas and Sara Jacobs of California. Castro and Jacobs’s districts in San Antonio and San Diego, respectively, are home to large populations of U.S. military veterans. Hundreds of people have died trying to access aid at the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation’s distribution points, according to the United Nations, many of them under Israeli fire. Read our complete coverage Israel’s War on Gaza The foundation’s chair has brushed off reports of chaos and violence at its distribution sites as “Hamas disinformation” and boasted about its success. A foundation spokesperson responded to the letter in a statement Thursday. “Our team looks forward to addressing the Senators’ concerns and all of the misinformation and misperceptions related to our mission focused on feeding the Palestinian people in Gaza. Additionally, we welcome the opportunity to restate our continued support and advocacy for the collaboration and coordination with other humanitarian organizations to flood Gaza with aid,” the spokesperson said. Dozens of Senate Democrats in a letter earlier this week said the foundation had failed to address the growing crisis in Gaza and called on President Donald Trump’s administration to expand aid through other nonprofits. Update: August 1, 2025 This story has been updated to include a statement from the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation that was received after publication. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp IT’S EVEN WORSE THAN WE THOUGHT. What we’re seeing right now from Donald Trump is a full-on authoritarian takeover of the U.S. government. This is not hyperbole. Court orders are being ignored. MAGA loyalists have been put in charge of the military and federal law enforcement agencies. The Department of Government Efficiency has stripped Congress of its power of the purse. News outlets that challenge Trump have been banished or put under investigation. Yet far too many are still covering Trump’s assault on democracy like politics as usual, with flattering headlines describing Trump as “unconventional,” “testing the boundaries,” and “aggressively flexing power.” The Intercept has long covered authoritarian governments, billionaire oligarchs, and backsliding democracies around the world. We understand the challenge we face in Trump and the vital importance of press freedom in defending democracy. We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us? $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Donate Contact the author: Matt Sledge sledge@theintercept.com @sledge.41 on Signal Related Trump’s Gaza “Food Centers” Miss the Real Problem: Israel’s Aid Blockade The New York Times Repeated Israeli Claims of Hamas Stealing Aid Without Evidence Israeli Parliament Votes for Making Apartheid Official. Fetterman: “I Haven’t Been Following It.” Starvation as a Weapon: Chris Hedges on Gaza Latest Stories Donald Trump Is Mostly a Crypto Billionaire Now, Group Says Matt Sledge - Aug. 9 “The more the President’s wealth depends on anonymous investors around the world with hidden agendas, the greater the risk.” Trump Orders State Department to Overlook International Human Rights Abuses Nick Turse - Aug. 8 The State Department was told to cut from its human rights reports info on election integrity, corruption, and the expulsion of refugees. Voices Trump Is Putting Confederate Statues Back Up. Here’s Why They Must Fall Again. Natasha Lennard - Aug. 8 Monuments to racism license racist violence. White supremacists, for their part, know this well. Join The Conversation