Project 2025 Data Leak Shows a Paul Ingrassia Calling for Test for Voting and Halting Immigration
Project 2025 Data Leak Shows a Paul Ingrassia Calling for Test for Voting and Halting Immigration Trump appointed far-right loyalist Paul Ingrassia to head a Justice Department office responsible for keeping politics out of the civil service. Amanda Moore July 23 2025, 6:16 p.m. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp Paul Ingrassia, then the White House liaison to the Justice Department, announces the release of Andrew Tate outside of a local jail on Jan. 20, 2025, in Washington. Photo: Pete Kiehart for The Washington Post via Getty Images In 2024, as Donald Trump’s reelection campaign gathered steam, the Heritage Foundation’s Project 2025 had its eye on staffing a new Republican administration. The initiative, which was designed around crafting an agenda for an incoming Trump White House, put out a call for aspiring administration officials. The application, including multiple-choice questions and open-ended queries, sought to place would-be Trump apparatchiks on the political spectrum and suss out their political priorities. One of the people who filled the form out entered a name that would echo through the first six months of Trump’s new term: Paul Ingrassia. Ingrassia is set to land a powerful job as head of the Office of Special Counsel. Now, pending a Senate confirmation, Ingrassia is set to land a powerful job as head of the Office of Special Counsel. Among other responsibilities related to the federal workforce, the office is supposed to protect whistleblowers and keep partisan politics out of the civil service. For Ingrassia’s critics, he would be just the wrong person to lead OSC. The Project 2025 questionnaire answers given under Ingrassia’s name would appear to bolster the case that the applicant’s primary concern is loyalty to Trump and sharp-elbowed partisan politics. The responses include allusions to severely cutting down federal agencies because of their “toxic ideologies”; halting immigration; and imposing a new test for voting. (Ingrassia did not respond to a request for comment.) Most Read Team Leader at Gaza Aid Distribution Sites Belongs to Anti-“Jihad” Motorcycle Club, Has Crusader Tattoos Sam Biddle, Matt Sledge The Week the World Woke Up to the Genocide in Gaza Jonah Valdez An Unexpected Path to Hold War Criminals Accountable Tyler McBrien A leaked dataset of the Project 2025 application questionnaires was released in June by the group Distributed Denial of Secrets, or DDoSecrets. An analysis of the leaked data showed that more than 13,000 people had filled out the applications. (Heritage did not respond to a request for comment.) DDoSecrets redacted the full entries for applicants but provided The Intercept with an unredacted version. The contact information and other personal data included in the Project 2025 file matched Paul Ingrassia’s information. Ingrassia was set to face a confirmation hearing in the Senate on July 24 but it was delayed at the last minute. Update on the update: Ingrassia was removed from the schedule because committee members requested more time to review his nomination, per Senate staffer familiar with discussions. White House has not withdrawn his nomination. https://t.co/mi2E691301 — Meryl Kornfield (@MerylKornfield) July 24, 2025 Good government groups are opposing his appointment. “As head of OSC, the special counsel should be someone who respects federal workers, who will treat them fairly and without bias,” a group of 24 civil society groups led by the Project on Government Oversight wrote in an open letter to Senators opposing Ingrassia’s nomination. “The special counsel must be a person who will exercise their duties in a nonpartisan manner, a person of honesty and integrity who has the necessary experience to fulfill such an important role.” “Paul Ingrassia is none of these.” Ingrassia has advocated for the arrest of the president’s political enemies, said that Democrats are a threat to democracy, and labeled Republicans who disagree with him as RINOs — a derisive acronym meaning “Republicans in Name Only.” “Paul Ingrassia is a respected attorney who has served President Trump exceptionally well and will continue to do so as the next head of the U.S. Office of Special Counse,” said Harrison Fields, a White House spokesperson, in an email received after publication. “The eleventh-hour smear campaign will not deter the President from supporting this nomination, and the administration continues to have full confidence in his ability to advance the President’s agenda.” The Questionnaire In the Project 2025 questionnaire filled out under the name Paul Ingrassia, the respondent agreed that “the President should be able to advance his/her agenda through the bureaucracy without hinderance from unelected federal officials.” A response to a prompt about which political issue he was most passionate about and why included a long list of pet projects. “I’m passionate about restructuring the administrative state, condensing the size and scope of the various bureaucratic agencies, defunding many of them, given how destructive they and their toxic ideologies have been on the American way of life; reform and shut down many of the intelligence agencies; fully upend the justice department; reform the courts; redesign Washington, D.C., and build an even better city in its wake,” the Project 2025 applicant wrote. We’re independent of corporate interests — and powered by members. Join us. Become a member Join Our Newsletter Thank You For Joining! Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. Will you take the next step to support our independent journalism by becoming a member of The Intercept? I'm in Become a member By signing up, I agree to receive emails from The Intercept and to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. Join Our Newsletter Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. I'm in The questionnaire also asked respondents to “name one living public policy figure whom you greatly admire and why.” The response — Trump and Pat Buchanan — lacked an explanation. When asked to “name one person, past or present, who has most influenced the development of your political philosophy,” the data under Paul Ingrassia’s name said “Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Napoleon, Donald Trump.” The answer to the question about what issues the applicant was passionate about said: I’m also very passionate about immigration — specifically, ending birthright citizenship, deporting all illegals and thinking about economic, other ways, to incentivize them to self-deport, building the wall and militarizing it with state of the art technology, personnel; instating a moratorium on all immigration, and revising the tests for citizenship, voting, other basic privileges of American life. Trump Loyalist Long before his stint in government, Ingrassia was a right-wing firebrand. A 30-year-old lawyer and right-wing commentator, he has referred to himself as “Trump’s favorite Substacker” and spent years writing articles praising Trump. He has ties to far-right figures and those with fringe beliefs. Last summer, Ingrassia showed up at a rally organized by far-right provocateur Nick Fuentes, whom Ingrassia has advocated for in the past. He also has a relationship with Timothy Hale-Cusanelli, a January 6 rioter who the Justice Department called a “Nazi sympathizer.” Ingrassia’s social media has included 9/11 conspiracy theories and support for Alex Jones, who gained notoriety for denying children were murdered at the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012. He graduated from Cornell Law in 2022. In 2023, Ingrassia worked for McBride Law, a firm that represented far-right influencers Andrew and Tristan Tate when they were facing allegations of rape and human trafficking in Romania and the United Kingdom. The firm filed a defamation lawsuit against one of their accusers that summer. (The Tate brothers have consistently denied these allegations. Proceedings are ongoing in both countries.) Ingrassia was not legally allowed to practice or market himself as a lawyer at the time; the firm referred to him as an Ivy League-educated associate attorney working on the case. He sat for the bar in July 2023 and was admitted to practice in New York on July 30, 2024. Related Trump Appointee Prosecuting LA Protesters Defended Jan. 6 Suspects After McBride, he worked as a communications director for the conservative nonprofit National Constitutional Law Union and occasionally wrote articles for the right-wing site Gateway Pundit. He left both positions after taking a job in January as a presidential liaison to the Department of Justice in January. After a few months, however, he was reassigned from the Justice Department to another agency amid reports of administration infighting. Reporting from ABC suggested his advocacy for the department to hire John Pierce, his old boss at the National Constitutional Law Union, played a role. Pierce represented many January 6 rioters. His work as a defense attorney faced criticism in the media. Correction: July 24, 2025 This story has been corrected to remove an errant reference to the Office of Special Counsel being housed at the Justice Department. It has also been updated to include a statement from the White House received after publication and note the delay in Ingrassia’s hearing. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp IT’S EVEN WORSE THAN WE THOUGHT. What we’re seeing right now from Donald Trump is a full-on authoritarian takeover of the U.S. government. This is not hyperbole. Court orders are being ignored. MAGA loyalists have been put in charge of the military and federal law enforcement agencies. The Department of Government Efficiency has stripped Congress of its power of the purse. News outlets that challenge Trump have been banished or put under investigation. Yet far too many are still covering Trump’s assault on democracy like politics as usual, with flattering headlines describing Trump as “unconventional,” “testing the boundaries,” and “aggressively flexing power.” The Intercept has long covered authoritarian governments, billionaire oligarchs, and backsliding democracies around the world. We understand the challenge we face in Trump and the vital importance of press freedom in defending democracy. We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us? $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Donate Contact the author: Amanda Moore @noturtlesoup17 on X Related ICE Lawyers Are Hiding Their Names in Immigration Court The Clear and Present Danger to the American Rule of Law Trump’s Big Lie Attorneys Are Back I Watched Groypers Descend on Detroit — Where They Were No Longer Pariahs Among Mainstream Republicans Latest Stories Donald Trump Is Mostly a Crypto Billionaire Now, Group Says Matt Sledge - Aug. 9 “The more the President’s wealth depends on anonymous investors around the world with hidden agendas, the greater the risk.” Trump Orders State Department to Overlook International Human Rights Abuses Nick Turse - Aug. 8 The State Department was told to cut from its human rights reports info on election integrity, corruption, and the expulsion of refugees. Voices Trump Is Putting Confederate Statues Back Up. Here’s Why They Must Fall Again. Natasha Lennard - Aug. 8 Monuments to racism license racist violence. White supremacists, for their part, know this well. Join The Conversation