CBP Agents Can Have Gang Tattoos — as Long as They Cover Them Up
CBP Agents Can Have Gang Tattoos — as Long as They Cover Them Up U.S. immigration officials have sent people to CECOT because of what they deemed gang tattoos. CBP grooming standards allow them. Noah Hurowitz July 16 2025, 5:18 p.m. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp U.S. Border Patrol agents talk to migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border in San Diego, Calif., on May 12, 2023. Photo: Ethan Swope/Getty Images When Franco José Caraballo Tiapa arrived at an Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in early February for a routine check-in, he thought he had little reason to worry. Caraballo, 26, had arrived in the U.S. in 2023 after fleeing persecution in Venezuela, lived with his wife in Dallas, and had no criminal record, his immigration attorney Martin Rosenow told The Intercept. He’d checked in with ICE regularly while waiting on his asylum claim. But when an agent took special interest in his tattoos, they detained him and put him on a bus to the Bluebonnet Detention Facility in Anson, Texas — and eventually on a plane to CECOT. Most Read Team Leader at Gaza Aid Distribution Sites Belongs to Anti-“Jihad” Motorcycle Club, Has Crusader Tattoos Sam Biddle, Matt Sledge The Week the World Woke Up to the Genocide in Gaza Jonah Valdez An Unexpected Path to Hold War Criminals Accountable Tyler McBrien For Caraballo and at least half a dozen other men, U.S. officials’ assumptions about their body art played a significant role in classifying them as gang members and disappearing them to the notorious prison in El Salvador. The Intercept found that a very different standard applies for the federal agents tasked with keeping migrants out of the country and rounding up those targeted by President Donald Trump’s deportation obsession. On a public “grooming standards” webpage aimed at prospective Customs and Border Protection agents, the agency advises that any tattoos and brandings must be concealed if they are “obscene or gang-related.” In other words, agents are allowed to have the very markings for which Caraballo and others were disappeared into a Salvadoran gulag — as long as they keep them out of sight. “It’s like saying ‘our gangsters are okay,’” Rosenow said. “But a young man fleeing persecution from his home country, a father of two little girls who likes to have ink on his body to commemorate his daughters, he is going to be subjected to this kind of horrifying shit?” One of the tattoos for which Caraballo was targeted showed a watch face, which Rosenow said depicted the hour of his daughter’s birth. Neither Rosenow nor Caraballo’s wife has been able to speak to him since he was sent to CECOT in March. “If you have tattoos it’s proof-positive you’re a gang member, yet CBP is authorized to hire people with these tattoos as long as they cover them up?” Like Caraballo’s pocket watch tattoo, many of the markings U.S. officials have singled out as evidence of gang affiliation strain credulity. Jerce Reyes Barrios, a 36-year-old former professional soccer player and coach from Venezuela, was held without bond pending his asylum application and later whisked out of the country to indefinite detention in CECOT over a tattoo of a soccer ball with a crown — a nod to his support for Real Madrid. “It’s the height of hypocrisy,” said Linette Tobin, an immigration attorney in San Diego who was representing Reyes in his asylum claim. “According to this administration, if you have tattoos it’s proof-positive that you’re a gang member, yet CBP is authorized to hire people with these tattoos as long as they cover them up?” CBP officials did not respond to The Intercept’s request for comment. The grooming standard does not necessarily imply that active or ex-gang members are welcome in federal agencies, which employ rigorous background checks and have a clear incentive to weed out prospective employees with problematic histories or conflicting loyalties. CBP, which draws many recruits from areas along the U.S.–Mexico border, has itself recognized an uncomfortable pattern of corrupt agents who work with family members and associates in criminal operations to assist in the smuggling of people and drugs and other contraband. Related CECOT Is What the Bukele Regime Wants You to See But the guidance appears to indicate a gang tattoo would not in itself be disqualifying. Gang experts have repeatedly argued that tattoos are an ineffective way to identify members of Tren de Aragua, the Venezuelan gang to which U.S. officials assumed Caraballo, Reyes, and other men sent to CECOT belong. The trait is more associated with MS-13 and other Central American gangs. Gang tattoos have a sordid history in some law enforcement agencies, most notably the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, where deputy gangs have long shown their loyalty — or notch their belt after killing someone — with body ink. Tattoos on federal agents have also raised the possibility of infiltration by white nationalists and other extremists. On Martha’s Vineyard, controversy erupted in June when an ICE agent was photographed with a tattoo on his arm of a Valknut, a Nordic and Germanic symbol that has been appropriated by white nationalists. (At the time, a DHS spokesperson objected to allegations that the tattoo was a marker of extremism on the part of the agent, claiming that it symbolized “warrior culture.”) Other federal agencies have their own standards for tattoos. The U.S. Marshals Service does not allow any face, hand, neck, or scalp tattoos, and stipulates that any tattoos that are “vulgar, sexist, racist, offensive” or could be “otherwise inappropriate, disruptive, or bring embarrassment or disrepute” must be concealed while on duty. Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth has drawn criticism for his tattoos, including one in Arabic that spells out “infidel,” and another that reads “Deus Vult,” a Latin slogan that means “God Wills It” and has been used by right-wing Christian extremists as a call to arms. Grooming standards for ICE agents do not appear to be publicly available, but while agents often cover their faces, visible tattoos are commonplace. On a recent day at New York City’s 26 Federal Plaza, where ICE agents have spent nearly two months making daily arrests of people outside immigration court, The Intercept saw multiple heavily tattooed agents, including at least one with markings on his hands and neck. For those on the other side of the equation, the nightmare shows little sign of ending. Caraballo, Reyes, and other immigrants banished to CECOT for their tattoos continue to be held essentially incommunicado. Only through the intervention of the Red Cross do their families know they are alive, their attorneys said. “Franco’s wife to this day barely makes ends meet,” Rosenow said, referring to Caraballo. “Her big concern now is that they’re going to detain and deport her simply because she’s his wife and he has those tattoos.” Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp IT’S EVEN WORSE THAN WE THOUGHT. What we’re seeing right now from Donald Trump is a full-on authoritarian takeover of the U.S. government. This is not hyperbole. Court orders are being ignored. MAGA loyalists have been put in charge of the military and federal law enforcement agencies. The Department of Government Efficiency has stripped Congress of its power of the purse. News outlets that challenge Trump have been banished or put under investigation. Yet far too many are still covering Trump’s assault on democracy like politics as usual, with flattering headlines describing Trump as “unconventional,” “testing the boundaries,” and “aggressively flexing power.” The Intercept has long covered authoritarian governments, billionaire oligarchs, and backsliding democracies around the world. We understand the challenge we face in Trump and the vital importance of press freedom in defending democracy. We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us? $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Donate Contact the author: Noah Hurowitz noahhurowitz@proton.me @NoahHurowitz on X Related ICE Lawyers Are Hiding Their Names in Immigration Court Georgia Police Arrest Farmworkers — Then Get Warrants From DHS ICE Said They Were Being Flown to Louisiana. Their Flight Landed in Africa. “Are We At Risk?” Wave of ICE Arrests Strikes Fear in Iranian Communities Latest Stories Donald Trump Is Mostly a Crypto Billionaire Now, Group Says Matt Sledge - Aug. 9 “The more the President’s wealth depends on anonymous investors around the world with hidden agendas, the greater the risk.” Trump Orders State Department to Overlook International Human Rights Abuses Nick Turse - Aug. 8 The State Department was told to cut from its human rights reports info on election integrity, corruption, and the expulsion of refugees. Voices Trump Is Putting Confederate Statues Back Up. Here’s Why They Must Fall Again. Natasha Lennard - Aug. 8 Monuments to racism license racist violence. White supremacists, for their part, know this well. Join The Conversation