White House Hype Reel On Trump's 'Wins' Has 1 Really Ironic Twist
White House Hype Reel On Trump's 'Wins' Has 1 Really Ironic Twist Even Trump’s critics showed up — just not how he thinks. By CorEy Townsend Aug 8, 2025, 05:21 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING The White House celebrated President Donald Trump’s 200th day in office in a peculiar way this week. On Thursday, the official White House X account marked the milestone with what is described as a string of victories, boldly claiming that all Trump does is “win” — though many would say quite the contrary. Advertisement “We don’t sleep — we win,” the post said. After the administration’s humblebrag came a video montage, featuring clips from a variety of television shows and films spanning decades. The twist? The compilation featured several celebrities who have been publicly, and at times vehemently, opposed to Trump — most notably Will Ferrell and Leonardo DiCaprio. In October of last year, Ferrell endorsed Kamala Harris in her bid for the White House. In the video entitled “Loud White Men For Kamala Harris,” the “Elf” actor was joined by Billy Eichner and ran through the streets of New York City urging Americans to the polls. He also appeared in a separate campaign video supporting Harris. U.S. President Donald Trump speaks to reporters near Air Force One at the the Lehigh Valley International Airport on Aug. 3, 2025 in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Anna Moneymaker via Getty Images Advertisement As for DiCaprio? His heart indeed did not go on for Trump during last year’s election. In an Instagram video posted to his account last year, the “Titanic” actor stated that Trump “continues to deny the facts.” “We need leaders who are equipped to enact climate policies that will help save the planet, and that’s why I’m casting my vote for @KamalaHarris on November 5,” he captioned the video. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Other figures featured in snippets in the White House montage for Trump were Tiger Woods, Nick Offerman, Jenna Fischer, Keanu Reeves and Jeremy Allen White. Advertisement Related Donald Trump Leonardo DiCaprio Will Ferrell OOPS! Trump Calls Top Official By Wrong Name While She's Standing Right There Trump Flips Out At Yet Another TV Star: 'No Talent, No Ratings, No Strength!!!' Jake Tapper Roasts Trump’s War On Numbers With Taunting New Tagline Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post