What To Do When You See ICE in Your Neighborhood
_Voices _Voices Support Us _Voices What to Do When You See ICE in Your Neighborhood How can you deter the Trump administration's immigrant deportation machine when it pops up in your community? Follow these steps. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp Justin Caffier July 12 2025, 6:00 a.m. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp Federal agents near MacArthur Park in the Westlake neighborhood of Los Angeles on July 7, 2025. Photo: Carlin Steihl/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images Justin Caffier is a journalist and occasional artist based out of Los Angeles. His investigative and experiential writing has featured in VICE, New York Magazine, and other outlets. You can find him on most platforms @justincaffier. To commemorate 30 days of its Los Angeles occupation, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and its auxiliary federal forces swarmed the city’s MacArthur Park earlier this week with cavalry, gunner-mounted humvees, and lines of agents kitted out for war. Monday’s boondoggle, later revealed in a leak as “Operation Excalibur,” resulted in no known arrests. This slapdash show of force accomplished little more than shutting down a children’s summer camp and further pissing off beleaguered Angelenos. It failed, in part, because LA has spent the past month learning how to fight back. Local news reports indicate that activists were ready. They preemptively raised the alarm with multilingual flyers, had lawyers on deck, and shouted warnings through megaphones once federal agents arrived. During the botched raid, U.S. Border Patrol Sector Chief Gregory Bovino made it clear that the occupation is only just beginning. “Better get used to us now,” Bovino told Fox News at the scene. “Because this is going to be normal very soon. We will go anywhere, any time we want in Los Angeles.” “We’re peaceful people. But we’re not going to allow y’all to kidnap us, to beat us, to brutalize us. ” But in Downtown LA that evening, a coalition of community groups held their own press conference celebrating 30 days of resistance. Well aware of the impotence or unwillingness of elected leaders to meaningfully hinder the federal terrorization of the city and the complicity of local law enforcement, these groups have spent the past month — many much longer than that — organizing collective approaches to protect those without documentation. Fired up by that morning’s raid, speakers were clear-eyed about the David-vs.-Goliath fight ahead. But they were more resolved than ever to win it. As everyone there seemed to fully understand, Los Angeles is the test case for what President Donald Trump will try to get away with elsewhere. Fighting back here matters far beyond city limits. Most Read Team Leader at Gaza Aid Distribution Sites Belongs to Anti-“Jihad” Motorcycle Club, Has Crusader Tattoos Sam Biddle, Matt Sledge The Week the World Woke Up to the Genocide in Gaza Jonah Valdez An Unexpected Path to Hold War Criminals Accountable Tyler McBrien Ron Gochez, who founded Unión del Barrio’s LA chapter and volunteers patrolling the streets and manning the hotlines for the affiliated Community Self Defense Coalition, closed the rally with an impassioned call to action. Related Documenting ICE Agents’ Brutal Use of Force in LA Immigration Raids “If they want to keep attacking us, they have to know they’re going to suffer losses too,” he shouted to a roaring crowd. “You can take it how you want. We’re peaceful people. But we’re not going to allow y’all to kidnap us, to beat us, to brutalize us. We’re not going to allow it. We will fight back.” But what can you actually do to effectively resist when, not if, ICE comes to your town? With the One Big Beautiful Bill Act’s unprecedented new funding for Trump’s detention and deportation machine, it’s clear the administration’s fascistic operations will only grow bigger and bolder. I’ve been reporting on and observing anti-ICE agitation around LA nearly every day over the past month. In this time, I spoke with activists leading the fight, including Gochez, and experts from organizations like No Sleep for ICE, the National Immigrant Justice Center, and the National Lawyers Guild of Los Angeles, or NLG-LA. Here are some tips gleaned from those conversations on what to do when the state’s masked kidnappers descend upon your town. Understand the Risks To gain some on-the-ground advocacy experience while pursuing her law degree, Elizabeth Howell-Egan became a board member at the NLG-LA, which provides pro bono legal support for immigrants and protesters arrested by federal agents. She cautioned that while the First Amendment and other protections should safeguard those recording and reporting on immigration raids, there’s often a gulf between the letter and application of the law. NLG-LA takes great pains to underscore this disparity and the unfair but inherent dangers that come with exercising these liberties at their popular “know your rights” workshops. Know your rights, know your risks, know your reality. “We say ‘know your rights, know your risks, know your reality,’” Howell-Egan explained. “Saying ‘I don’t consent to this search’ probably won’t stop the police from searching you. But that could make it so, in theory, they have to throw out whatever [charge] they find from that illegal search.” Like others I spoke to, Howell-Egan encouraged activists to do their utmost to avoid the expensive, time-consuming, and physically perilous prospect of arrest. Calling resistance efforts “a marathon, not a sprint,” she stated a preference for collective, mass-defense approaches that endanger as few individual protesters as possible. “Salute” When You’re the Source Out running errands and see a cluster of weirdos kitted out for war, milling about like they’re stuck in a Call of Duty matchmaking lobby? Grab some pics and vids to raise the alarm. Keep in mind that specificity is paramount when logging these sightings, both to increase efficacy and avoid panic. Fortunately, one of master’s own tools has proven itself an invaluable counterintelligence asset. Plucked straight from U.S. military field books, the acronym S.A.L.U.T.E. can help you gather the most pertinent details. It’s also the practice almost universally recommended by the groups I spoke to. Size: How many people and/or vehicles do you see? Activity: What, specifically, are they doing that’s suspicious? Location: What address, cross streets, or landmark are they at (the more specific the better)? Uniform: What are they wearing, whether it’s fatigues, nondescript civilian clothes, or something else entirely? Time: What date and time did you observe them? Equipment: What guns, weapons, or devices do they appear to be carrying? Follow and Repost With Discretion Thanks for taking such comprehensive notes. Now where do you send them? There’s no evidence the feds are conducting “how do you do, fellow antifa” honeypot busts. But anyone attempting to post alerts about the activities of federal agents would be wise to operate as if they were. The groups I spoke to remain concerned about infiltrators stymying their efforts. Even at the press conference, activists clocked and called out a suspected undercover among the crowd. Unfortunately, there’s no one-size-fits-all approach for this element of activism. To safely discover and interact with the patchwork of anti-ICE activities around LA, I relied on trusted individuals from my personal network of journalists and activists, as well as community groups and organizers leading local efforts. But if you’re just getting started, the accounts mentioned in this article, any of the more than 65 groups that have joined LA’s Community Self Defense Coalition, or the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights are solid sources of information. And if you’re ever unsure about an entity’s bona fides, sites like mutualaidhub.org can help determine if an outfit is legit or carpetbagging. Share Tips Thoroughly and Responsibly After sharing your hot ICE tip, there’s another key step. Call your area’s Rapid Response Network, a multi-organizational, community-based coalition that helps mobilize to protect vulnerable immigrant groups in real time. These groups can take your tip and turn it into action. Take, for instance, No Sleep for ICE. The group’s Instagram account provides daily lists of hotels lodging federal agents — resulting in noisy protests designed to make the occupation inhospitable for the occupiers. No Sleep for ICE also does the critical job of issuing on-the-fly corrections and victory posts once a location is confirmed agent-free. A No Sleep for ICE representative, who spoke with me on the condition of anonymity out of concerns for their safety, said the account functions thanks to a network of volunteers who turn tips into a robust database of vehicles, license plates, individuals, and locations believed to be associated with the federal forces. This critical information is relevant for just a short moment, making the group’s work feel almost Sisyphean. “Nothing is consistent. Everything changes every day,” the representative said. “We can produce photos today and, by tomorrow, none of it will matter.” No Sleep for ICE relies almost entirely on community tipsters to piece together enough of the puzzle to build a working theory of which hotels are hosting agents, before the group begins the corroboration process. The last thing the group wants, according to the source, is to act on a false positive. The overarching fear brought about by the raids has engendered a “better safe than sorry” reporting strategy among citizen spotters, where anything that could be ICE-related is passed along. But tipsters could considerably lighten the load by spending a few extra seconds confirming their information before contacting tip lines. We may never know how much worse the false sighting problem has been made by deeply ingrained and addictive social incentives of the online platforms used to share warnings. Nonetheless, every tip sent to No Sleep for ICE and other community watchdogs has to be investigated — often sending volunteers scrambling to check false alarms, such as Recreation and Parks Department employees, Forest Rangers, and film crews. Taking an additional beat to check a suspicious car for tinted windows, hidden grille lights, or a backseat cage can mean the difference between sending volunteers on a goose chase or confirming a true threat. Remove When It’s No Longer Relevant Though Snapchat and Instagram stories condition us to believe our online ephemera expires after a 24-hour life cycle, counterintelligence warnings warrant more active digital stewardship. Don’t forget to take your post down (and ideally replace it with an update or retraction) should the situation change. This practice may seem like overkill, but there can be real consequences. Outdated or unsubstantiated warnings don’t just merely send latecomers into harm’s way. They also keep people from their jobs, customers from businesses, and exacerbate the culture of fear these raids seek to foment. Nobody’s perfect or keeping a record of you here. Consider this the digital activism equivalent of returning your shopping cart. Do the small but right thing. We’re independent of corporate interests — and powered by members. Join us. Become a member Join Our Newsletter Thank You For Joining! Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. Will you take the next step to support our independent journalism by becoming a member of The Intercept? I'm in Become a member By signing up, I agree to receive emails from The Intercept and to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. Join Our Newsletter Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. I'm in Download Signal if You Haven’t Yet Organizers have so far used the big social media platforms to great effect to protect their local immigrant communities. But these tech platforms are nonetheless inherently compromised by the oligarchs who own them. There’s not yet concrete proof these services are feeding relevant intel to an administration they are courting during this renaissance of pay-to-play politics, but it’s prudent to act as if they are. Related Signal’s New Usernames Help Keep the Cops Out of Your Data Enter Signal, the imperfect but still exceedingly secure messaging app historically favored by journalists, whistleblowers, and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth. For many activists, this end-to-end encryption app became standard operating procedure long before ICE’s 2025 onslaught. But as more first-timers are joining the cause, it’s useful to follow these guidelines. If it’s sent to you on Signal (particularly images and videos), don’t take that content off the app, at least without permission. Set a timer so your messages and images automatically expire after a while. Don’t use your legal name or phone number as your user name. If you must screenshot, cropping out all avatars and initials is just the start. Also scour the text or image for any potentially identifying features. Signal even has a tool for blurring critical information. If an event organizer has already posted about an activity on a social media platform, it’s likely fine to reshare it there. But if you want to share with someone who is not a mutual on said platform, sending that link or image via Signal is more secure than doing so over iMessage or WhatsApp. Those abstracted philosophical hypotheticals, trolley problems, and obviously satirical jokes you share with your pals that touch upon topics like violence, sedition, and treason are a healthy reaction to processing the horrors of the world around us. But don’t you ever put that in any text box outside of Signal. It doesn’t always matter if you never hit “send.” When in Doubt, Just Call Them “Feds” A recurring tactic of this administration and its online minions — bots and boot-lickers alike — has been to weaponize pedantry. The tactic is to discredit or simply waste the time of well-intentioned people by challenging anyone who mixes up any inconsequential detail while chronicling the chaos unfolding around them. Such was the case when the Department of Homeland Security deployed a historically grim “um, actually” on June 19 after the Los Angeles Dodgers claimed to turn away ICE agents attempting to use their stadium for raid staging. Related ICE Said They Were Being Flown to Louisiana. Their Flight Landed in Africa. “This had nothing to do with the Dodgers,” DHS’ quote tweet challenged. “CBP vehicles were in the stadium parking lot very briefly, unrelated to any operation or enforcement.” Aw, geez. Turns out they were Customs and Border Patrol, not ICE. Who gives a shit? Especially when they’re all working toward the same evil ends while purposefully obfuscating their identities. Don’t sweat if you can’t figure out which federal agency a group of Special Ops cosplayers belong to, but don’t chum in the water either. When in doubt, a simple “feds” will suffice. Open Your Wallet Many of the immigrants targeted by feds make their living selling food as street vendors. The looming threat of raids has made it near impossible for them to do their public-facing jobs, so activists have begun organizing “cart buy-outs,” to purchase and redistribute their product for them. If you’ve been meaning to get more fresh fruit in your diet, there’s never been a better time or method to do so than with one of these. If you have a few dollars more to spare, consider donating directly to the organizations active in your community. Even the ones not asking for donations would almost certainly accept a few bucks to help with all the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by their volunteers. Volunteer Your Time Though this guide is primarily advising on “observe and report”-style resistance efforts, there’s certainly more you can do if posting ICE sightings and attending protests doesn’t feel like enough. There are free street medic training classes, car caravan blockades, and even community watches to join. But you should keep in mind that such interventionist approaches come with higher degrees of risk and warrant more in-depth training than just reading an article. The many organizations making up LA’s Community Self Defense Coalition conduct the boots-on-the-ground work protecting residents of this “sanctuary city” that its elected officials and law enforcement officers refuse. Community Self Defense Coalition volunteers like Gochez often wind up playing the role of scouts. Once ICE agents are spotted, volunteers follow them to their target location and get on megaphones, warning members of the community to stay indoors or, as Gochez described a recent victory in the Highland Park neighborhood, encouraging everyone with documentation to come outside and scare the outnumbered agents into retreat. Gochez, a high school history teacher of 20 years, starts his prowl for ICE at 5:30 a.m. He told me that there’s always a need for more volunteers, though he’d prefer would-be patrollers get properly educated first. “We’ve trained thousands of people to do [community patrols] in different parts of the country and here in LA locally,” he said. “But we’re also getting a ton of people patrolling on their own … and following [agents] too close or too fast, and that can get ugly very quickly.” “We can visibly tell that the agents are really, really frustrated. Public opinion is absolutely turning against them.” While Gochez laments that anyone has been captured in government operations at all, he thinks the figure would be much worse if people were not so aware of their rights or stepping up to protect each other. “We know that a lot of people have been taken in LA,” said Gochez, “but we know that this would be 10 times worse if it wasn’t for the organized resistance that we’ve been putting up against these people. And we can visibly tell that the agents are really, really frustrated. Public opinion is absolutely turning against them.” Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp IT’S EVEN WORSE THAN WE THOUGHT. What we’re seeing right now from Donald Trump is a full-on authoritarian takeover of the U.S. government. This is not hyperbole. Court orders are being ignored. MAGA loyalists have been put in charge of the military and federal law enforcement agencies. The Department of Government Efficiency has stripped Congress of its power of the purse. News outlets that challenge Trump have been banished or put under investigation. Yet far too many are still covering Trump’s assault on democracy like politics as usual, with flattering headlines describing Trump as “unconventional,” “testing the boundaries,” and “aggressively flexing power.” The Intercept has long covered authoritarian governments, billionaire oligarchs, and backsliding democracies around the world. We understand the challenge we face in Trump and the vital importance of press freedom in defending democracy. We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us? $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Donate Contact the author: Justin Caffier justincaffier@gmail.com @justincaffier on X Related Documenting ICE Agents’ Brutal Use of Force in LA Immigration Raids ICE Agents Deserve No Privacy Crossing the U.S. Border? Here’s How to Protect Yourself How to Leak Under the Trump Administration Latest Stories Donald Trump Is Mostly a Crypto Billionaire Now, Group Says Matt Sledge - Aug. 9 “The more the President’s wealth depends on anonymous investors around the world with hidden agendas, the greater the risk.” Trump Orders State Department to Overlook International Human Rights Abuses Nick Turse - Aug. 8 The State Department was told to cut from its human rights reports info on election integrity, corruption, and the expulsion of refugees. Voices Trump Is Putting Confederate Statues Back Up. Here’s Why They Must Fall Again. Natasha Lennard - Aug. 8 Monuments to racism license racist violence. White supremacists, for their part, know this well. Join The Conversation