Nancy Mace Blasts ‘Raging Democrat’ Reporter After Her Own Hypocrisy Gets Called Out
Nancy Mace Blasts ‘Raging Democrat’ Reporter After Her Own Hypocrisy Gets Called Out The South Carolina Republican snapped when asked about taking credit for projects tied to a bill she opposed. By Curtis M. Wong Senior Culture Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 04:50 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Rep. Nancy Mace (R-S.C.) didn’t take kindly to being fact-checked by a reporter during a Thursday interview at a town hall event for her gubernatorial race. While speaking at the event, Mace touted her role in a number of recent infrastructure upgrades ― including a road improvement project ― across South Carolina. As the reporter pointed out, however, many of those projects were tied to the Inflation Reduction Act, which was signed into law by former President Joe Biden in 2022 and opposed by Mace and other Republican lawmakers. Advertisement As Mace defended her vote against the legislation, she took direct aim at the reporter, whose identity is unclear, in footage captured by Forbes. “You’re very confused. And you’re a raging Democrat. So raging leftist with that kind of questioning,” she retorted. Watch footage of the exchange via Forbes below. Advertisement “And I would say as a woman, like, you might want to think about how you view other women and how you treat other women the way that you question them, because women are going to lead this country off the brink,” she continued. “The first female president of this country is going to be a conservative woman, not some liberal like you.” As the reporter continued to note the contradiction, Mace dismissed the inquiry with a patronizing suggestion. “Maybe read the Constitution next time before asking such a question five times over,” she said, adding, “Pick up a Constitution and read it.” Advertisement According to the South Carolina Policy Council, Mace recently polled as the frontrunner in a hypothetical 2026 GOP gubernatorial field, coming in ahead of Lt. Gov. Pamela Evette and Sen. Josh Kimbrell, among other prospective contenders. In a Monday interview with NewsNation, Mace described herself as a version of President Donald Trump “in high heels,” and said she was hoping to earn his endorsement. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “He is a kingmaker, in this case, a possible queenmaker in the race for governor of South Carolina,” she said. “We’re also unveiling policies that Donald Trump, I believe, will support, and we’re going to work hard to earn his endorsement, to earn support.” Advertisement Related South Carolina Nancy Mace Nancy Mace Reveals 1 Of Her ‘Favorite’ Hobbies, And It’s So Cruel People Think She’s ‘Sick’ Nancy Mace Missed 1 Glaring Fact When She Insulted Simone Biles Nancy Mace Says She’ll Be ‘Trump In High Heels’ After Announcing Bid For Governor Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In U.S. News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post