Trans People Have Disappeared From ICE Records, Against Congressional Orders
Trans People Have Disappeared From ICE Records, Against Congressional Orders The Trump administration has made efforts to "erase" transgender people, who face violence and medical neglect behind bars. Matt Sledge July 11 2025, 6:30 a.m. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp The Metropolitan Detention Center, used to hold people arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in Los Angeles, Calif., on June 12, 2025. Photo: David McNew/Getty Images President Donald Trump’s administration has vanished another inconvenient fact: the number of transgender people in immigration detention. Immigration and Customs Enforcement quietly stopped reporting how many transgender people it keeps locked up in February, as the total population of immigrants in detention soared and the agency rescinded protections for trans people. Most Read Team Leader at Gaza Aid Distribution Sites Belongs to Anti-“Jihad” Motorcycle Club, Has Crusader Tattoos Sam Biddle, Matt Sledge The Week the World Woke Up to the Genocide in Gaza Jonah Valdez An Unexpected Path to Hold War Criminals Accountable Tyler McBrien The move follows Trump’s executive order in January to essentially stop recognizing that trans people exist. According to the nonprofit Vera Institute of Justice, it appears to run afoul of a congressional mandate to report how many transgender and other vulnerable people are being kept in immigration detention. The move has complicated advocates’ efforts to keep trans immigrants safe behind bars, where they face a heightened risk of violence and medical neglect. “It’s part and parcel of a larger effort to really erase trans people,” said Bridget Crawford, the director of law and policy for the nonprofit advocacy group Immigration Equality. “They are not even willing to try to track the trans population, despite the congressional mandate.” Her group released a survey last year finding “systemic” mistreatment of LGBTQ+ and HIV-positive people in immigration detention. About one third of the respondents reported sexual and physical abuse or harassment, and nearly all reported verbal abuse, including threats of violence. Most said they received inadequate medical care or were denied care outright. “Advocates and legal service providers rely on these statistics, even though the statistics are limited.” Congress directed the Department of Homeland Security, the parent agency of ICE, to report the number of transgender people in detention starting in 2021, according to the Vera Institute. The data that ICE published to its website under former President Joe Biden only gave a breakdown on the number of trans people in broad geographic regions. Still, it showed a climb in the number of people self-identifying as transgender from a handful in 2021 to as many as 60 last year. That number was almost certainly an undercount, experts say, since transgender people are reluctant to divulge their identity to officials for any number of reasons. Nevertheless, it provided advocates with an idea of where to point their resources and helped them pressure ICE to provide more resources. “Advocates and legal service providers rely on these statistics, even though the statistics themselves are limited,” said Noelle Smart, a researcher for the Vera Institute. We’re independent of corporate interests — and powered by members. Join us. Become a member Join Our Newsletter Thank You For Joining! Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. Will you take the next step to support our independent journalism by becoming a member of The Intercept? I'm in Become a member By signing up, I agree to receive emails from The Intercept and to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. Join Our Newsletter Original reporting. Fearless journalism. Delivered to you. I'm in Without regular data, there’s no way to know for sure if the number of transgender people in ICE detention has risen along with the overall population, but it seems likely, Smart said. “We know in general that transgender people are more likely to encounter the criminal legal system, which is a major way that people encounter immigration enforcement, through over-policing,” she said. Related ICE Is Erasing Rules That Protected Trans Immigrants Other politically inconvenient information has also gone missing from ICE’s website under Trump. In 2015, when Trump border czar Tom Homan was an agency executive under then-President Barack Obama, he signed a memorandum on care for transgender people in ICE custody. It is no longer available to download. The page that previously hosted the document now pulls up a “Page Not Found” notice. The memo disappeared from public view in February, shortly after the New York Times published an article on Homan’s career that highlighted his creation of it. When Tom Homan worked for ICE under Obama, he signed a memo on care for trans people in custody. It is no longer available. Homan has claimed that he was pressured to sign the memo. ICE did not respond to a request for comment about why the memo is no longer available or whether it remains in effect. The agency has also stripped out language protecting trans people from the contracts for three detention facilities, as The Intercept reported in March. Last month, it deleted references to transgender people from its national detention standards, further alarming advocates. “The broader context is quite alarming, especially because the vast majority of our clients have very, very strong asylum claims,” Crawford said. “The vast, overwhelming majority have experienced very high levels of abuse, sexual assault, often torture before they come to the United States.” Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp IT’S EVEN WORSE THAN WE THOUGHT. What we’re seeing right now from Donald Trump is a full-on authoritarian takeover of the U.S. government. This is not hyperbole. Court orders are being ignored. MAGA loyalists have been put in charge of the military and federal law enforcement agencies. The Department of Government Efficiency has stripped Congress of its power of the purse. News outlets that challenge Trump have been banished or put under investigation. Yet far too many are still covering Trump’s assault on democracy like politics as usual, with flattering headlines describing Trump as “unconventional,” “testing the boundaries,” and “aggressively flexing power.” The Intercept has long covered authoritarian governments, billionaire oligarchs, and backsliding democracies around the world. We understand the challenge we face in Trump and the vital importance of press freedom in defending democracy. We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us? $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Donate Contact the author: Matt Sledge sledge@theintercept.com @sledge.41 on Signal Related The Private Prison Industry Looks Forward to Soaring Profits Thanks to Trump’s Budget Documenting ICE Agents’ Brutal Use of Force in LA Immigration Raids The Supreme Court Just Imperiled the Rights — and Lives — of All Trans People ICE Is Erasing Rules That Protected Trans Immigrants Latest Stories Donald Trump Is Mostly a Crypto Billionaire Now, Group Says Matt Sledge - Aug. 9 “The more the President’s wealth depends on anonymous investors around the world with hidden agendas, the greater the risk.” Trump Orders State Department to Overlook International Human Rights Abuses Nick Turse - Aug. 8 The State Department was told to cut from its human rights reports info on election integrity, corruption, and the expulsion of refugees. Voices Trump Is Putting Confederate Statues Back Up. Here’s Why They Must Fall Again. Natasha Lennard - Aug. 8 Monuments to racism license racist violence. White supremacists, for their part, know this well. Join The Conversation