Pro-Israel Professor Shai Davidai Is Leaving Columbia
Pro-Israel Professor Shai Davidai Is Leaving Columbia Davidai posted on social media that he had been cleared of allegations filed against him last year. He was previously suspended after he was accused of harassment and intimidation. Akela Lacy July 9 2025, 1:31 p.m. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp Columbia Business School Assistant Professor Shai Davidai speaks during a rally to mark the first anniversary of the October 7, 2023, Hamas attacks on Israel, on October 6, 2024, in New York City. Photo: Noam Galai/Getty Images Shai Davidai is leaving Columbia University. Per an email sent to Columbia Business School faculty on Wednesday morning from Dean Costis Maglaras and obtained by The Intercept, the vocal pro-Israel business school assistant professor made the decision to leave the school. Most Read Team Leader at Gaza Aid Distribution Sites Belongs to Anti-“Jihad” Motorcycle Club, Has Crusader Tattoos Sam Biddle, Matt Sledge The Week the World Woke Up to the Genocide in Gaza Jonah Valdez An Unexpected Path to Hold War Criminals Accountable Tyler McBrien Davidai soon followed the internal announcement with a social media post declaring that Columbia’s Office of Institutional Equity had cleared him of allegations filed against him in February 2024. He was temporarily suspended last year after Columbia said he “repeatedly harassed and intimidated University employees in violation of University policy.” “BOOM,” Davidai wrote, alongside a screenshot of a note on Columbia letterhead from the vice provost for the Office of Institutional Equity saying that it was closing Davidai’s case without finding wrongdoing. University policy allows the office to close investigations when an employee no longer works there. “Assistant Professor of Business Shai Davidai has decided to depart Columbia, effective July 8, 2025,” Columbia spokesperson Millie Wert said in a statement to The Intercept. “The University thanks him for his service and wishes him the best in his future endeavors.” Semafor was the first to report the news of Davidai’s departure. Davidai did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Related Palestinian Student Leader Was Called In for Citizenship Interview — Then Arrested by ICE Davidai, who joined the business school in 2019, received viral attention for his pro-Israel tirades and self-filmed videos of his confrontations with pro-Palestine protesters. Several students, including Mahmoud Khalil and Mohsen Mahdawi, have also alleged that Davidai targeted them and called for them to be deported in the lead-up to their arrests by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Davidai was also a member of a prominent WhatsApp group of Columbia alumni, parents, and professors that strategized about how to deport pro-Palestine students, The Intercept reported. He has noted that he does not have tenure at the school. Update: July 9, 2025, 3:57 p.m. ET This story has been updated with additional information. Share Copy link Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Share on X Share on LinkedIn Share on WhatsApp IT’S EVEN WORSE THAN WE THOUGHT. What we’re seeing right now from Donald Trump is a full-on authoritarian takeover of the U.S. government. This is not hyperbole. Court orders are being ignored. MAGA loyalists have been put in charge of the military and federal law enforcement agencies. The Department of Government Efficiency has stripped Congress of its power of the purse. News outlets that challenge Trump have been banished or put under investigation. Yet far too many are still covering Trump’s assault on democracy like politics as usual, with flattering headlines describing Trump as “unconventional,” “testing the boundaries,” and “aggressively flexing power.” The Intercept has long covered authoritarian governments, billionaire oligarchs, and backsliding democracies around the world. We understand the challenge we face in Trump and the vital importance of press freedom in defending democracy. We’re independent of corporate interests. Will you help us? $15 $25 $50 $100 $5 $8 $10 $15 One Time Monthly Donate Contact the author: Akela Lacy akela.lacy@theintercept.com @akela_lacy on X Related Mahmoud Khalil Won His Freedom Despite the Best Efforts of ICE’s Intelligence Unit “How Can I Take Anyone Seriously Talking About Mohsen Being Antisemitic?” The Columbia Network Pushing Behind the Scenes to Deport and Arrest Student Protesters The Far-Right Group Building a List of Pro-Palestine Activists to Deport Latest Stories Donald Trump Is Mostly a Crypto Billionaire Now, Group Says Matt Sledge - Aug. 9 “The more the President’s wealth depends on anonymous investors around the world with hidden agendas, the greater the risk.” Trump Orders State Department to Overlook International Human Rights Abuses Nick Turse - Aug. 8 The State Department was told to cut from its human rights reports info on election integrity, corruption, and the expulsion of refugees. Voices Trump Is Putting Confederate Statues Back Up. Here’s Why They Must Fall Again. Natasha Lennard - Aug. 8 Monuments to racism license racist violence. White supremacists, for their part, know this well. Join The Conversation