I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This.
Pay Dirt I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Advice by Elizabeth Spiers and Athena Valentine Aug 08, 20252:00 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Our advice columnists have heard it all over the years—so we’re diving into the Pay Dirt archives to share classic letters with our readers. Submit your own questions about money here. (It’s anonymous!) Dear Pay Dirt, I am 65 years old and retired. I have a very good pension and substantial savings that would provide me with a comfortable rest of my life. My home is paid off, and I have no other consumer debt. I have worked hard and sacrificed much to be at this place in my life. After I retired, my daughter was in an accident that left her unable to work. She could no longer afford her home for her and my two granddaughters (her kids’ father does not have funds to help). I suggested that she move back home for a year or two to regroup. That was eight years ago. She never went back to work and has been “in school” for about three years getting her nursing certification—I think. Although I love them dearly, I am tired of living with them. We (she, mostly) have been discussing getting a bigger house so that we can continue to live together, I can help with her special needs child, and I can have a space to find some quiet when I need it. Selling my paid-off home would give me a substantial down payment, but she would still be coming with nothing—not even a job to help pay a new mortgage. I want to help them, and I love watching my grandchildren grow up, but I feel like I would be screwing up my own retirement plan and giving away my peace of mind. What do I do? —Help Her, Save Me Dear Help Her, Save Me, I have two questions after reading your letter. First of all, what do you mean that your grandkids’ father “does not have funds to help”? Unless he is next to Johnny Cash in prison singing about the Folsom Blues, he needs to do something to provide for these children. You provided for your child, who is their mother, but you should not be expected to provide for your grandkids—their parents should be. Which brings me to my second question: Why is your daughter going to school if she’s not going to work? You said she’s “in school” for a nursing certificate, but you also said supposedly. Find out what’s going on there. Do not—and I repeat, DO NOT—sell your home and get a bigger one. Help your daughter move out with a get-self-sufficient plan instead. Explain you want the best for her, and that’s not living with you. You love her and your grandkids so much that you think they deserve a home of their own, and you want to help her get there faster by bringing in outside support. First, your daughter needs to file for child support. Let the judge be the one to decide if the kids’ father has enough funds, not anyone’s feelings. Second, every state has resources to help pay for additional care and therapy for those with special needs, especially children. Find your state’s department and give it a call. They should be able to help connect your daughter with the services her child needs. Finally, state and federal programs like the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act help people like your daughter get back to work. Along with funds for supportive services, such as a deposit for utilities or rent, they may also cover a trade or certificate up to $3,000 and help with child care. Your best bet is to Google “job training [your state]” and/or “WIOA [your state]” and contact the relevant agency. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement You aren’t wrong for wanting to retire by yourself comfortably, so with a bit of tough love and outside help, you won’t have to give that up. —Athena Valentine From: My Parents Blew My College Fund On A Failed Business. (May 22th, 2021). Get advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Care and Feeding,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Care and Feeding following up) Submit Dear Pay Dirt, I am a single woman in my mid-30s with three best friends from high school who are all married and have two kids each. We go on a “family vacation” each summer, which is lovely and great. To date, we have been splitting our rental costs “by family,” which for me means I pay the same as two adults and two children. This has generally worked fine while the kids were small and bunking together or sharing a room with their parents, but as time goes on and we find ourselves in need of more rooms and bigger homes to accommodate the brood, I wonder your opinion on how to split costs fairly. I can afford to pay a quarter of the share, but I can’t shake the feeling that I’m getting the short end of the stick. I’m thinking of proposing a “per bedroom” split, but again, I probably have the most disposable income (read: childless) so don’t want to be the asshole either. What say you? —Family of One Advertisement Related From Slate Ben Mathis-Lilley My Son Played With My Husband’s Lego Set. The Way He Punished Him Horrified Me So Much That I’m Now Living at My Sister’s. Read More Dear Family of One, Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. I think it’s reasonable to request a rethinking of the split when the next vacation rolls around. If you were in a block of hotel rooms instead of a rental, everyone likely would expect to pay a per-room share. If you’re worried about being perceived as an asshole, it’s really a matter of framing. Tell your friends, way ahead of time, that you’re making an effort to try to manage your money better and the rental costs keep going up because everyone is happily expanding their families, and you all need more space. Since you will only need one room, you’d like to figure out a split that’s more equitable, so that your costs don’t go beyond what’s reasonable for a single person. Then put the question to them: What do they think is reasonable? I doubt that any of them are going to make the argument that you should be subsidizing their kids. But if they do, you’ll have to decide if it’s worth the cost for you to continue these vacations. —Elizabeth Spiers From: My Parents Disowned My Brother After He Came Out. Do I Have To Split My Inheritance With Him? (July 28th, 2021) Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement More Advice From Slate I have an unusual problem and am not sure how (or if) it can be resolved. My husband and I have a 1.5-year-old daughter, “Erin.” My mother has hypersensitive hearing. When I was a kid, I had to keep the TV on so low I needed to sit within 3 feet of it to hear it, and my sister and I had to talk to her in a lower volume than our normal speaking voices. (My parents ended up divorcing when I was 10 because, according to my mother, my dad talked too loudly.) The problem has only worsened as my mother has gotten older. Sounds produced by normal activities bother her, from a microwave beeping to people using utensils while eating to something being cut on a cutting board—even a Ziploc bag being opened within several feet of her. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Family Personal Finance Advertisement