One Thing Made This Week’s Execution in Tennessee Particularly Horrific
Jurisprudence One Thing Made This Week’s Execution in Tennessee Particularly Horrific By Austin Sarat Aug 08, 202512:05 PM Rev. Ingrid McIntyre hugging India Pongarcher while Kelly Chieng looks on as they protest the execution of Byron Black at the Riverbend Maximum Security Institution on Tuesday in Nashville, Tennessee. Reuters Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis, criticism, and advice out there, delivered to your inbox daily. On Tuesday, Tennessee put Byron Black to death. Black had been found guilty in 1988 of murdering his 29-year-old girlfriend, Angela Clay, and her two young daughters. The jury in his trial concluded that he had been in a jealous rage when he shot them because he thought Clay, whom he had dated, was going back to her estranged husband. The members of the jury were not persuaded to show him mercy and sentenced him to death. Black was the second person put to death in the Volunteer State this year, and the 28th in the country to be executed this year. One would not have thought that his death would garner much attention. But it did. It made news across the nation and overseas because it was botched and because Tennessee was warned extensively in advance that it likely would be but ignored those concerns. Unfortunately, botched executions are nothing new. In Black’s case, the state refused to take a modest step that would have prevented the suffering he endured. In a civilized society, the death penalty would be banished. And if it is not, such a society would do everything it could to ensure that the condemned were treated with dignity in their last minutes. Black’s botched execution should be the occasion to rethink the legal standards now governing the way courts treat claims under the Constitution’s prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment. Before talking about what that standard should be, let me say something about Black’s case and about the problem of botched executions. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement The man Tennessee killed was far removed from the person who was convicted of a gruesome murder. An ABC News affiliate in Los Angeles explained that Black “was in a wheelchair, suffering from dementia, brain damage, kidney failure, congestive heart failure, and other conditions.” Because of his heart condition, Black had an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in his chest. Its job was to keep his heart working by delivering electrical stimulation when necessary. As his execution date drew near, Black’s lawyers made what they thought was a straightforward request: remove the ICD or deactivate it “to avert the risk that it could cause unnecessary pain and prolong the execution.” The procedure to do that is not complicated and could have been accomplished with little inconvenience to the state. Nonetheless, Tennessee resisted. According to the ABC report, “In mid-July, a trial court judge agreed with Black’s attorneys that officials must have the device deactivated to avert the risk that it could cause unnecessary pain and prolong the execution. But the state Supreme Court … overturned that decision, saying the other judge lacked authority to order the change.” Advertisement The state denied that “the lethal injection would cause Black’s defibrillator to shock him and said he wouldn’t feel them regardless.” The state was wrong. In Tennessee’s haste to get on with putting Black to death, the state’s top judges and officials seemed unconcerned about avoiding the risk of a botched execution. Advertisement After the deed was done, media witnesses discussed what they saw. They all observed the same thing. They offered minute-by-minute accounts suggesting that Black raised his head repeatedly as the execution started. He “was groaning a lot, saying, ‘Phew.’ ” And he said, loudly enough for all to hear, “It’s hurting so bad.” An article in the Intercept reported: Advertisement of the seven media witnesses, several had also attended Tennessee’s last execution, carried out in May. This one was different. “It was unanimous among all of us that we saw him in distress,” said Steve Cavendish, editor-in-chief of the Nashville Banner. “We heard him in distress.” They had not seen that in Tennessee’s previous execution. The publication also quotes a medical expert who observed that pentobarbital, the single-drug barbiturate used in Black’s execution, “should cause rapid unconsciousness. It sounds like this did not occur.” Advertisement It also noted, “Whether the pentobarbital had not worked as intended or the implanted heart device repeatedly shocked Black as predicted was not clear.” It quotes Black’s lawyer, who said that either way, “this is a classic case of a person who was put through extreme pain through a process of lethal injection.” Advertisement Advertisement To anyone who has studied that execution method, such an observation is not a surprise. Lethal injection has a terrible track record. It is more frequently botched than any other method of execution that has been used in this country in the past century and a half. But Black’s was different from most because the failure was not an inability to access a usable vein, as is the case in most lethal injection botches. And it was entirely predictable. The Tennessee Supreme Court failed to do its job. It was hobbled not only by arcane procedural rules but by legal standards first articulated in the 19th century, guidelines that the trial court found adequate but that nonetheless need to be revised. Advertisement Popular in News & Politics This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Bad News for Trump’s Nobel Peace Prize Ambitions Think You’re Smarter Than a Slate Features Editor? Find Out With This Week’s News Quiz. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only One Thing Made This Week’s Execution in Tennessee Particularly Horrific This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Trump Is Asking the Supreme Court to Bless Stephen Miller’s Racial Profiling They derive from what the U.S. Supreme Court noted in 1890. “Punishments,” the court ruled, “are cruel when they involve torture or a lingering death; but the punishment of death is not cruel within the meaning of that word as used in the Constitution. It implies there something inhuman and barbarous—something more than the mere extinguishment of life.“ Advertisement In 1947, reviewing a case involving a botched electrocution, the court decided that “the cruelty against which the Constitution protects a convicted man is cruelty inherent in the method of punishment, not the necessary suffering involved in any method employed to extinguish life humanely.” As to botched executions, the court pinned a lot on whether the botch was accidental or intentional. “The fact,” it said, “that an unforeseeable accident prevented the prompt consummation of the sentence cannot, it seems to us, add an element of cruelty to a subsequent execution.” So long as “there is no purpose to inflict unnecessary pain,” even a botched execution could not be considered “unconstitutionally cruel.” Advertisement Related From Slate Austin Sarat Florida’s Latest Death Penalty Innovation Is Absolutely Horrifying Read More It is, I think, time to update that standard. Here, we can borrow from the law of murder or manslaughter. The fact that Black suffered needlessly during his execution was neither accidental nor intentional. It was something in between. It was an example of what the law calls “reckless or depraved indifference to human life.” Reckless indifference is displayed when someone acts with “a blatant disregard for the potential consequences of their actions,” even if those actions create a substantial risk of death or serious injury to others. It manifests itself in a serious disregard for the value of human life. Black’s execution resulted from just that kind of apathy. If this country insists on executing people, the kind of disregard that Tennessee displayed in his case should never be allowed to happen again. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Death Penalty Jurisprudence Slate Plus Supreme Court Judiciary Tennessee Advertisement