I’ve Always Prided Myself on Being Open-Minded. Then My Boyfriend Confessed What He Really Wants in Bed.
How to Do It I’ve Always Prided Myself on Being Open-Minded. Then My Boyfriend Confessed What He Really Wants in Bed. Advice by Jessica Stoya and Rich Juzwiak Aug 08, 202512:00 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Gratsias Adhi Hermawan/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Our advice columnists have heard it all over the years—so we’re diving into the How to Do It archives to share classic letters with our readers.Have a question? Send it to Stoya and Rich here. It’s anonymous! Dear How to Do It, I’m a 30-year-old woman who has always been interested in kink, and I have been very lucky to start dating a younger man who I find immensely attractive, is bisexual like me, and is a switch in the bedroom. However, he recently confessed to me that his biggest kink is ABDL—adult baby/diaper lovers—and he’d like me to occasionally take a “mommy” role in the bedroom. I never thought of myself as judgmental when it comes to kink, but I’ve found myself wondering how I can become OK with the idea of seeing the man I love in diapers and bibs. It definitely doesn’t arouse me in any sense of the word. I don’t think everything partners do in sex needs to be equally gratifying for both, and I want to be the person he comes to for satisfaction in this regard. Is there anything I can do to Pavlov my brain into finding this at least appealing? —Mommy Dearest Dear MD, Let’s think about your desire to be the person your partner comes to for his ABDL fulfillment. Why do you want this? Is there some sense of empowerment you feel you’ll derive from the role of “mommy”? Or joy from successfully catering to your partner’s carnal cravings? It’s worth spending some time examining your feelings and motives here, and you’ll probably find a mix of emotions. I’m hoping that one of the reasons you want to satisfy your partner’s sexual longing can help you figure out your path to accessing the “scene.” And you may find that once you’re engaged in the play you find facets that are arousing for you. Another thing you can do is get more information from your partner. What does he yearn for? Is it a safe person to fully unleash his inner child around? Does he want an element of domination? Are there themes of punishment, or solely of care? Is it the sensations of the diaper and bib? Does it simply turn him on and he isn’t sure why? As with your reasons to want to engage, there will probably be a mix of pleasures and goals on his end. And I’m hoping that more detailed information from your partner will show you a path to enjoyment. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Once you find some facet that appeals to you, take your time. If you enjoy having your breasts stimulated, that’s a likely good place to start. If you enjoy being dominant, and he wants that from you, there’s another good starting point. And once you start, you may find that your partner’s pleasure brings you enough to begin the Pavlov process. —Jessica Stoya From: I’m a Female Virgin, and I’m Looking for a … Very Specific Quality in My First Lover. (April 23, 2021). Get sex advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Prudence,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Dear Prudence following up) Submit Dear How to Do It, I’m a young trans man who recently started testosterone, and I have a couple questions. Before I start, I want to state that I’m dating an ace person I love dearly, that they prefer that we be monogamous, and that I prioritize my relationship with them over my issues here, so I’d prefer to solve these without any recommendations for partnered sex. Advertisement That said: I’m confused that my body doesn’t seem to process pleasure normally. I read a lot of erotica, especially by other trans men. Touching myself anywhere ranges from vaguely uncomfortable to sort of gross, even when it’s not being affected by dysphoria. Even fondling my bottom growth feels more like rubbing a healing wound than anything I’d classify as nice. This is an ongoing problem since before I started T, but I kind of hoped that it might help, based on the testimonials I read from others about libido increase. My libido has increased, but this problem has not gotten any better. I do get aroused, though, hence the frequent reading of erotica. That does feel good. But when I try to do anything about it physically, it gets unpleasant fast. The sexy feelings that I read about translate into just feelings of pressure and sometimes scraping, unpleasant tingles and squelches. And before you ask, yeah, I’m sure I’m not ace myself. I feel sexual attraction and arousal, and I definitely have a libido too; this seems to be a physical thing. It makes me unhappy. At this point, I’m considering that when I go into my Planned Parenthood for my next round of testosterone bloodwork that I ask them about it. But that isn’t for a month, and, please forgive my language, but I’m getting fucking tired of this. Any advice? Even just that I’m on the right track? —Trans and Tired Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Dear TT, Your curiosity and experimentation suggest that you are indeed on the right track. For help with this question, I reached out to Gaines Blasdel, a New York–based trans community worker who runs the resource website Healthy Trans. Blasdel told me by phone that what you’re experiencing is common, particularly at this point in your transition. “It’s super common for people right after they start testosterone to have clitoral growth or genital hypertrophy, which can translate to pain and discomfort as the tissue is mechanically stretching,” he said. Your issue here predates your going on T, but testosterone is not a cure-all. It’s a series of shots, not a magic bullet. Blasdel explained that the body’s response to testosterone ranges: “Sometimes hormones help people feel more comfortable in their body, but not everyone.” Blasdel told me that for months after starting T, he found himself unable to reach orgasm. “Trans people say their orgasms change after they start hormones, so it can take time to click with what your new orgasm feels like,” he said. Advertisement That you’re checking out erotica by trans men is good, but Blasdel warned against comparing your response to that which you’re reading about—masturbation that works for one trans man may leave another cold. Time and patience are key here. Definitely talk to your hormone prescriber, though, about your issues—especially your pain, as Blasdel reminded us: “Any genital pain should be evaluated by a primary care provider.” That’s true for everyone, regardless of gender identity. Good luck! —Rich Juzwiak From: I Started a Sexual Relationship With My Stepfather, and I’m Not Sure if It Was a Mistake. (Nov. 16, 2020). Advertisement Advertisement Dear How to Do It, I am a straight 52-year-old man who is finally getting back into the dating scene after my wife’s death, which was two years ago. We were married for 25 years and exclusive for three years prior to that. I’m really not all that worried about finding anyone, or even the actual sex part. I’m actually worried about how much I should trim my pubic hair. I’m not a hairy person in general, but I have actually never trimmed down there. I want to be “contemporary” without making it look like I am trying too hard. Does that make sense? —Modern Bush Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Michelle Herman My Parents Are Begging to Take Care of Our Kids. My Spouse Has a Ridiculous Objection. Read More Dear Modern Bush, A light trim is always in. While I’m pretty open-minded about these pubic matters, an aesthetic I do not particularly enjoy is what I call “elephant in the bushes”: thick clumps of hair on either side of the shaft. You’ll flatter your size by trimming particularly close (if not straight-up shaving) around your dick as well as taking off whatever hair happens to grow on it. Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Right down the middle is the way to go when presenting yourself to prospective lovers. Tastes will range, and I think most people won’t actually care, but you’ll maximize your follicular appeal by neither being too hairy nor bare. From your question, I presume that you do not regard your pubes as a potential source of personal expression. If you’re as down to conform to the taste of your partner as you seem, I’d ask whomever you end up with what they want and follow suit if it’s not too demanding. It’s your pubic hair, but if you’re not particularly committed to it and you happen to settle with someone with staunch opinions on the matter, defer to them. —R. J. From: My Husband’s Tinder Date. (Aug. 24, 2020). More Sex Advice From Slate I love my husband. We’ve been together for 14 years. The issue is before we were together, I had an avid sex life. He has never really cared about sex. We haven’t had any in five years (he has a bad back and no sex drive). I’ve tried talking to him; we’ve tried therapy. No changes. Last year, I started sleeping with someone else. It’s amazing. Husband has no clue. My issue is that I don’t feel guilty. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Dating and Relationships Sex Advertisement