Three Hours Into the New School Year, My Son Got Suspended for Outrageous Behavior. I Know Who to Blame.
Care and Feeding Three Hours Into the New School Year, My Son Got Suspended for Outrageous Behavior. I Blame His Father. Advice by Jamilah Lemieux Aug 08, 202511:14 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Cunaplus_M.Faba/iStock/Getty Images Plus and Deagreez/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Care and Feeding is Slate’s parenting advice column. Have a question for Care and Feeding? Submit it here. Dear Care and Feeding, I have a 12-year-old son, “Dexter.” Today was his first day of middle school, and less than three hours after the school day began, I received a call at work informing me that Dexter had already earned himself a week’s suspension. When I heard about his behavior, I was floored—and knew exactly who to blame. Dexter was suspended because he grabbed the breasts of a female classmate and told her she would “make a good tradwife.” Upon questioning him about where in the living hell he learned this from, I found out that he has been mired in the manosphere all summer during the days when he was at his dad’s place (we’re divorced). I’ve taken away his internet privileges during my custody time with him for the rest of the year, but I have no control over what happens when Dexter is with my ex. As you can tell, his father provides little in the way of supervision; my ex’s reaction to this incident was more being annoyed over Dexter being suspended rather than being outraged over his actions, so he’s useless in that area. Any help would be much appreciated. —Mother of a Misogynist-in-Training Dear Mother of a Misogynist, You’re going to have to be diligent about the work of deprogramming your son, especially since you can’t trust his father to keep him away from the manosphere. First, you need to ensure that he understands the seriousness of his actions. Grabbing a girl’s breasts is sexual assault, and he’s fortunate that he’s not being criminally charged. Talk to him about how serious the ramifications for something like that could be, as well as about how what he did may impact the victim (use that language). Ask him how he would feel if a young lady he wasn’t attracted to grabbed him by the crotch. Remind him of the importance of bodily autonomy and that it’s never okay to touch someone sexually without permission. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Get your son to pull up some of the content he’s been consuming and directly refute the anti-woman messaging they spew. Explain to him what misogyny is and how the manosphere traffics in it. Let him know that those podcasters and personalities do not know how to have healthy relationships with women and girls and cannot be trusted to provide advice for dealing with them. Discuss how misogyny harms women and how it’s impacted your own experiences. Whether your ex-husband has issues with women, or is simply apathetic to sexism, share this information with your son and encourage him to move differently. Let him know that girls respond favorably to boys who are respectful and kind more often than not, and that it’s a myth that most of them go for assholes or bad boys. Help him to understand that the form of masculinity promoted through the manosphere is toxic—not only to girls and women, but to the boys and men who buy into it. Tell him about how “red pilled” men who buy into a worldview that blames women for all of their own shortcomings have carried out terrible acts of violence against women. Advertisement Advertisement Do some reading. The “And Other Big Questions” series may be helpful, particularly What Is Masculinity and Why Does It Matter, What Is Gender? How Does It Define Us, and What Is Consent? Why Is It Important? Talk to your son regularly about gender, equality, and consent. Let him know that disrespect for women and girls won’t be tolerated by you and hold him accountable when he falls short. Help him to understand that rejection is a part of life and prepare him to experience it without lashing out or holding girls accountable for his romantic disappointments. —Jamilah Advertisement More Parenting Advice From Slate My husband and I have been married for 19 years and have two elementary school–age kids. For most of our marriage, his work hours were longer than mine—50 hours a week for him, 30 for me. I made things equitable by picking up 90 percent of the domestic labor: I do the household errands, cleaning, school drop-offs, etc., which easily add up to 20 hours a week. But my husband has recently come into an inheritance (wealthy aunts do exist) that would allow him to retire from a tough job much earlier than he’d planned. We’d lose some annual income, but I reassured him that less money seemed worth it for the net benefit to our family: He’d be happier, and healthier, and if he’s no longer working, then he could take over some of my regular duties, which would make me happier and healthier too. His reaction shocked me. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Family Kids Slate Plus Advertisement