How Trump Could Be Setting Up the Next Financial Crisis
Moneybox How Trump Could Be Setting Up the Next Financial Crisis Private equity and credit firms need new investors. This is where Donald Trump—and you—come in. By Brendan Ballou Aug 08, 202511:12 AM Win McNamee/Getty Images Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis, criticism, and advice out there, delivered to your inbox daily. President Donald Trump has been busy teeing up the next possible financial crisis. On Thursday, the White House issued an executive order allowing regular investors to gamble money in the “private markets.” As a result, an opaque and largely unregulated part of the financial system will soon get access to potentially trillions of dollars, and people like you and me may soon have to pay as larger, more sophisticated investors escape the consequences of their own bad decisions. But to explain why that may be, some definitions are in order. When we talk about the private markets, we refer, in large part, to two things: private equity and private credit. (Things like venture capital and real estate are also typically included.) The same financial firms—Blackstone, Carlyle, KKR, and the like—often run both private equity and private credit funds, but the work is different. Private equity funds use some of their own money, some investor money, and lots of borrowed money to buy and flip companies. In contrast, private credit funds don’t buy companies but rather lend money to them, operating like unregulated banks. With far less oversight, these “shadow banks” are able to make riskier, less transparent deals. The problems of private equity are well known: so well known, in fact, that working in the industry is now, in film, a character flaw. Fewer people know about private credit, but many of those who do are sounding the alarm. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, for instance, has complained about the industry’s lack of transparency and said that “there would be hell to pay” if such loans failed. (This did not, however, stop his bank from investing $50 billion in the business.) These two industries—private equity and private credit—share similar names because they exist outside the “public” markets, where companies must disclose their performance and must not offer sweetheart deals or inside information to favored investors. By contrast, because private equity and credit operate in comparative secrecy, only large, sophisticated investors, like university endowments and union pension funds, have traditionally invested in them. The problem is that these institutional investors, facing high fees and middling returns, have largely reached the limit on how much they’ll spend on these schemes. So private equity and credit firms need new investors, and this is where Trump—and you—come in. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement These firms have long sought to allow managers of 401(k)s like the one you may have to buy into their projects: ordinary investors’ money, the thinking goes, can be used for private equity firms to buy up more companies and for private credit firms to make new loans. For the firms, it’s an enormous opportunity: over $12 trillion is invested in regular retirement plans, far more than the current private equity and credit markets combined. Right now it’s legal for 401(k) managers to make these investments, but they’ve been reluctant to do so, for fear that workers and retirees will sue them for making irresponsible decisions in the private markets. Related From Slate Hannah Harris Green Trump Has Promised to Lower Prices. It Will be Impossible Without Private Equity Reform. Read More But the government can, through regulation and legal guidance, largely insulate these managers from lawsuits, and that’s exactly what the Trump administration has begun to do. After Thursday’s executive order—which encourages investments in private equity, private credit, and cryptocurrency, among other things—and its follow-on regulations, it will be far harder for retirees to recover if fund managers plunge their money into foolish projects. Advertisement And some of those projects are looking increasingly foolish. The private equity market has stalled out, as firms struggle to unload the companies they buy. “Zombie funds,” in which private equity firms sell companies from themselves to themselves, have grown popular. Increasingly, firms’ access to retirees’ money looks less like a way to help ordinary investors get in on the action, and more like a way to force them to hold the bag as larger, more sophisticated investors look to escape. Advertisement As far as we know, the private credit market hasn’t experienced the same level of strife, but the phrase “as far as we know” is doing a lot of work there. By definition, the private credit market is more opaque than other lending markets and far less regulated. Ratings agencies struggle to evaluate this debt, and firms increasingly offer new loans for companies just to pay off old ones, all of which have unsettling parallels to the years before the Great Recession. While the private credit market is far smaller than the housing market, both share a troubling lack of transparency and overeagerness to lend without caution. Advertisement Advertisement Popular in Slate The Real Reason Disney Is Killing Hulu I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Those De-Extinct Dire Wolves Were a Warning. Well, the Next Phase Is Coming. It’s Raining Dildos on WNBA Courts. You’ll Never Believe Who’s to Blame. So how can all this be stopped? Organizations like Better Markets and Americans for Financial Reform are organizing around the issue and deserve your support. And merely registering your discontent can dissuade 401(k) fund managers from diving into private markets: The administration can discourage lawsuits against irresponsible fund managers, but it can’t completely stop them. Letting your retirement advisers know that you don’t trust the private markets—and would be happy to join a lawsuit over them—can help discourage fund managers from getting into those markets. And doing so is worth the effort. Unlike private equity and credit, the “public” markets we have today are comparatively transparent and fair because of reforms borne out of the Great Depression: the creation of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the regulation of financial advisers, and so forth. With its executive order, the Trump administration hopes to push ordinary investors from these open markets and toward opaque and unregulated ones, much like those we had in the 1920s. That decade didn’t end particularly well; will this one end better? Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Donald Trump Economy Retirement Slate Plus Finance Advertisement