Help! I Let My 5-Year-Old Play Outside in a Swimsuit. Then I Got a Startling Knock on the Door.
Dear Prudence Help! I Let My 5-Year-Old Play Outside in a Swimsuit. Then I Got a Startling Knock on the Door. Prudie replies to readers’ comments and suggestions. Advice by Jenée Desmond-Harris Follow Jenée Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Jenee_DesmondHarris newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Jenée Desmond-Harris? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 08, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Slate and Genestro/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Each week, Prudence asks readers for their thoughts on the letters she’s received. Her reply will be available every Friday only for Slate Plus members. Hey Prudence, Re Concerned: My wife and I were on the receiving end of a call like the one the letter writer is considering, except that it was 45 degrees outside and our 5-year-old, wearing her swimsuit, wanted to play outside with her two older siblings at the end of our cul-de-sac. A neighbor had called Child Protective Services, who came to our house. In fairness, she was more concerned about the temperature. But as I explained to the CPS official, her mother and I were monitoring the situation from inside the house, and my daughter knew where to find her clothes if she got cold. The official agreed, had a little chuckle, and left. That daughter is now a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist. She turned out fine. Please save the CPS call for something more dangerous. —AScannerDarkly Yeah, I think a lot of people assume CPS exists to make sure everyone makes the best possible parenting decisions (according to the person making the report), when in fact, their job is to protect kids from parents who make the worst possible parenting decisions (according to any reasonable person). I have to know how long your daughter lasted out there in the snow—and whether she eventually became a teenager who wore a hoodie in 90-degree weather. Hey Prudence, I am a professional educator for home gardeners (and an avid Dear Prudence reader), and I have some advice for Orange Outrage. I loved Prudie’s suggestion to put up a sign inviting people to pick oranges, but the letter writer should check with their homeowner’s insurance about liability. By inviting people onto their property to pick oranges, they could be opening themselves up to liability if there is an accident. That said, even without the sign, they should still ask their insurance about what would happen if someone fell or hurt themselves picking oranges, even while trespassing—it may fall into a similar category of “attractive nuisance” as a pool, and depending on what their insurance says, putting up a fence may reduce their liability. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement There is also the issue of tree health. People are terribly abusive to plants when harvesting if they aren’t familiar with proper techniques! Improper harvesting can cause branch damage that opens the tree up to other pest and disease problems. It also leads to food waste, as many folks will pull a fruit off the tree, decide it’s underripe, and throw it on the ground. So, as a professional, I think the best option is to put a crate of oranges on the sidewalk with a sign that says something like, “Free oranges for you! Please leave the ones on the trees to continue ripening.” It’s friendly, and it tells people WHY it’s in their own best interests to leave the trees alone (i.e., they’ll get unripe fruit if they pick anything). Also, the LW should make sure they are raking up and disposing of any rotten/dropped oranges underneath the trees every few days. First, this keeps orange tree diseases from festering underneath the tree. Second, if passersby see lots of waste underneath the trees, they tend to think, “Wow, look at all that fruit going to waste! No one will notice if I grab a couple.” Advertisement —Erin Kinley, Senior Manager and State Coordinator of the Penn State Extension Master Gardener Program Prudie readers know everything! Thank you for all this insight. I am constantly forgetting about liability issues, but that’s a really important thing for the letter writer to look into. And “Please leave the ones on the tree to continue ripening” is just perfect. Totally kind and pleasant, based in tree health science, and it gets the message across. Get advice from Prudie—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Prudence,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Dear Prudence following up) Submit Hey Prudence, Re Mostly Vegan: While many people use the term “vegan” to mean “food that doesn’t have animal products in it,” veganism is really an entire way of life that centers seeking the end to all forms of animal exploitation. If I were accidentally eating chicken or cow products, I would absolutely want to know, even if it meant having to give up a snack. (You’d be shocked how many things secretly have milk solids.) Thanks for understanding that in your response, Prudie! Advertisement Advertisement I also wanted to make a quick PSA: Candies containing gelatin or confectioner’s glaze aren’t vegan. The gelatin part is, thankfully, becoming more widely known, but the glaze fooled me until I finally looked it up a couple of years ago. (Spoiler: The glaze? It’s bugs!) —No Harm No Fowl Come on—why did you have to tell me about the bugs? I looked it up and ended up learning about “bee vomit” in candy, too. Thanks for the PSA, I guess. I’ll never look at gumdrops the same way again. Advertisement Advertisement Hey Prudence, Re Already Raised: I’m really surprised you skipped over the fact that the letter writer’s husband is prioritizing his own cowardice over his wife’s needs. I always appreciate when advice columnists remind kids-in-law that it’s their spouse’s job—sometimes solely—to deal with their own parents’ bad behavior. This husband sounds completely spineless, and if I were the LW, I’d focus all of my energy on fixing his lifelong bad habit of caving to his mom, rather than wasting a single minute over her nonsense. If he can’t stand up for you when you (reasonably!) need him to, the problems in your marriage run far deeper than a know-it-all mother-in-law. —Been There Done That Advertisement Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. So, I do often tell people that spouses are in charge of their parents’ bad behavior when the parent is being mean or causing harm. But in this case, we were just dealing with something that the LW found annoying. I don’t think she wanted her husband to stand up for her as much as she wanted him to … complain for her? I guess my response was written from the perspective that I didn’t see the mom’s unsolicited tips as really awful, but reasonable minds can disagree on that. Advertisement Hey Prudence, Re Paying the Prince: The letter writer’s hookup is bearing the full physical cost of this unwanted pregnancy—the full physical cost of having an abortion, and the full physical cost of fluctuating hormones until the procedure can be performed. Add to that the time and emotional cost of recovering from said abortion. Calling it “fair” to split the bill ignores, absolutely and egregiously, the physical price a woman (or AFAB person) pays when a pregnancy occurs, whether it’s carried to term or not. Advertisement And that’s before we talk about the pay gap—According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, women earn around 83 cents for every dollar earned by men in the U.S. as of 2024. The LW should cover the full cost of the abortion for a myriad of reasons, and keeping the peace is absolutely not one of them. —It’s Not Just Nickels and Dimes You know what? You have a point. I will try to find his email and send an updated invoice! Classic Prudie I had a baby two months ago. About two weeks ago, my husband had to go out of town for a few days, so his mother came to stay with the baby and me. One night I heard the baby crying, and heard my MIL go to him. I thought she was going to bring him to me to nurse so I stayed in bed for a while. When she didn’t bring him, I figured she was just rocking him back to sleep and went to see if she needed anything, like a bottle from the fridge. When I entered the room I saw her holding my son… Don't miss what's new from Prudie Get advice on manners and morals in your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Dear Prudence newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Dear Prudence Parenting Slate Plus Advertisement