Think You’re Smarter Than a Slate Features Editor Find Out With This Week’s News Quiz.
Test your knowledge of this week’s big stories. By Ray Hamel Aug 08, 20255:55 AM Make it a habit! Get the Slate Quiz in your inbox every weekday. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Slate Games newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Welcome to Slate’s weekly news quiz. It’s Friday, which means it’s time to test your knowledge of the week’s news events. Your host, Ray Hamel, has concocted questions on news topics ranging from politics to business, from culture to sports to science. At the end of the quiz, you’ll be able to compare your score with that of the average contestant, as well as that of a Slatester who has agreed to take the quiz on the record. This week’s contestant is features editor Leah Prinzivalli. Can you ace the quiz and beat Prinzivalli? Good luck! I’m headed to South Carolina to track down those radioactive wasps. Once I have been stung and acquire my Wasp-Man superpowers, I will be auditioning for a young sidekick to be called Stinger. If you are interested, give me a buzz. We’ve been busy bees writing up this week’s Slate News Quiz. If this is your first time playing, read the rules here. The quiz may require you to turn on cookies in your browser for it to function properly. Please enable Javascript in your browser to view Slate interactives. More Games From Slate Slate Mini Crossword for Aug. 9, 2025 Slate Crossword: Tress-Gripping Device (Eight Letters) Slate Mini Crossword for Aug. 8, 2025 How Many Oxygen Atoms Are Present in a Dimer of Nitrous Dioxide? Copy Link Share Share Comment Quizzes The Slate News Quiz Slate Games