The Real Reason Disney Is Killing Hulu
The Industry Disney Finally Admits That Netflix Won the Streaming Wars It’s bad news for movie and TV lovers everywhere. By Nitish Pahwa Follow Nitish Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Nitish_Pahwa newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Nitish Pahwa? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 07, 20256:30 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Buchandbee/Getty Images Plus and Sashkinw/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis, criticism, and advice out there, delivered to your inbox daily. Approximately two months ago, Disney closed a deal with Comcast, the parent company of NBCUniversal, that sealed Hulu’s fate. The House of Mouse owned a majority stake in the junior streamer, but Comcast retained a 33 percent share, and Disney had been itching for full control over the app for years. By June, the two corporate giants had finally ironed out an agreement whereby Disney bought out NBCUniversal’s remaining stake in Hulu, working the books so as to underpay its entertainment rival and reap a multibillion-dollar tax benefit in the process. But the more pressing goal behind that transaction became clear this week, when Disney CEO Bob Iger announced on an earnings call that his company will phase out Hulu’s individual app and “fully integrate” it into the Disney+ platform, centralizing both services around one ad server. Hulu is getting buried, but it’s not dead yet. Going into next year, viewers will retain the choice of picking only a Hulu subscription or a Disney+ subscription—although, no matter what, they’ll have to access one or the other through Disney+ itself. Meanwhile, the plan to merge Hulu With Live TV, specifically, with Fubo (the once indie live-sports streamer that’s now majority owned by Disney) is still in the works, with the latter set to absorb all of the Hulu-cable bundle’s branding and rights by next year. In other words: Disney, going forward, is putting its property into the streaming game for the long haul, and it will leave hesitant nonsubscribers with no choice but to tether themselves to Disney. Hulu, for all intents and purposes, will exist only in ghost form. It’s kinda like how Amazon is absorbing the entire Freevee streaming service and killing off its individual app—except with much more outcry from the populace, considering how long Hulu has thrived as a far more distinctive brand with plenty of subscribers. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement There’s a noteworthy trend here: Disney is clearly impatient to ensure that its subsidiary brands are, to consumers, automatically synonymous with Mickey Mouse, just as Freevee now is with Amazon. Already, Disney+ users could access many Hulu exclusives through the parent-company-branded app, but Hulu die-hards could not see anything from Disney+ in turn. Fubo is not fully owned by Disney and thus not the docket for full absorption (yet). But the House of Mouse owns enough of the smaller sporting enterprise that it can use it as a testing ground for the greater Hulu phasedown. More pertinent to Disney is that Fubo is a part of its portfolio at all; the small streamer had sued Disney on antitrust grounds after it announced a partnership with Fox and Warner to pool together their resources for a megasize sports platform. Disney’s respective 70 percent purchase of Fubo stakes was meant to toss some loose change, make the suit go away, and keep Disney focused on its in-house sports missions. It’s all in the family, and it happens to be a big family. Advertisement This leads us to another industry-shifting announcement Iger made on Wednesday. Just one day before Disney’s earnings call, its subsidiary brand ESPN announced that it would be more closely intertwined with the NFL than ever before. America’s still-dominant athletic league would get a 10 percent stake in ESPN, and the iconic channel would acquire plenty of properties once owned by the NFL. These include broadcasting rights to RedZone’s popular Sunday-afternoon game analyses, a new status for ESPN Fantasy Football as the league’s official fantasy offshoot, and total ownership of the NFL Network from the airwaves to the digital streams. Iger also confirmed Wednesday that ESPN’s official streaming app will launch in two weeks, bringing all the network’s multichannel offerings into a $29.99-a-month subscription. Advertisement Advertisement ESPN, which is still too recognizable to suffer the same fate as Hulu, will be centralized into one core streaming product with even more sports than ever before: The House of Mouse is also paying the WWE way more money than Peacock could ever pony up for WrestleMania and Royal Rumble, thus wrenching those live events away from NBCUniversal along with the last bits of Hulu. Now the only other streamer with a compelling wrestling offer is Netflix, which holds the license for the popular livecasts of Monday Night Raw. As if that weren’t enough, sporting fans will be highly incentivized to take the new app as well as Disney+ in a bundled package that costs the same as the ESPN streaming app, about $30 a month. Advertisement It was almost as if Iger and his team foresaw the bearish reactions when they informed investors that Disney’s current streaming arrangement wasn’t really taking off. There was a broader message from all the added and centralized goodies the company was adding to its digital ecosystem: The House of Mouse, like the rest of the entertainment world, has resigned itself to chasing after Netflix as the competition remains far behind—and, in response, will push its core brand to the top, making it as ubiquitous as possible within the streaming world. It’s not a coincidence that Iger also mentioned Wednesday that his company would stop publicly reporting those middling subscription numbers for Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+ from here on out—you know, just like Netflix stopped doing this year. Advertisement Advertisement There was once a time when entertainment giants shared their valuable shows and movies with one another, allowing Netflix to stream and distribute certain movies, or sharing the streaming rights to a particular show with a competitor, or teaming up to share a particular sporting league with the entire country. What we’re seeing now with these historic TV-and-movie empires is something more territorial, more bloodthirsty: pivots to streaming that are no longer as interoperable with other services, brand synergy that insists upon keeping the parent-company logo in view at all times, and particular niches that may stand out as the virtual kaleidoscope of streaming takes out what’s left of the cable-and-broadcast landscape. Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Nitish Pahwa Larry Ellison Just Quietly Became the Most Powerful Man in America Read More It’s a long game from Disney, and an aggressive one. Such business decisions can be witnessed across the industry: The restoration of the HBO Max brand (fka Max, fka HBO Max) was symbolic of David Zaslav’s move to hoard Warner Bros. Discovery’s crown jewels. As the company splits back up into two separate firms, Zaslav has focused on three core brands—Warner Bros., HBO, DC Studios—at the expense of everything else. HBO Max’s formerly sprawling streaming library has been gutted. The varied “hubs” that once featured within the app (e.g., Adult Swim, Turner Classic Movies, Sesame Workshop, the NBA) have been purged or sold off. What’s left is a narrowed, frumpy prestige app that feels like HBO Now and HBO Go, complemented only by a limited window of BritBox previews. Advertisement You can also look at Paramount, which closed its controversial (and likely politically motivated) merger with Skydance Media just this week. The game there is also digital. As CNN’s Brian Stelter noted, the first memo from the overarching Paramount-Skydance CEO—David Ellison, the son of infamous tech oligarch Larry Ellison—“used the word ‘tech’ ten times,” with a matching focus on “Paramount’s streaming businesses and upgrading the company’s outdated technology systems.” The melding of Showtime’s once-individual app with Paramount+ as a “Premium” was just a precursor. Advertisement With the new merger, both Paramount+ and Pluto TV are the key streaming businesses, and they’ll surely be at the front of Ellison’s efforts to make his conglomerate “a next-generation media and technology leader.” One key indicator as to how this will unfold: exclusive yearslong rights to stream South Park on Paramount+, yanking its dozens of seasons away from HBO Max. (Whether Ellison will keep his hands away from the show’s biting criticism of his business remains to be seen.) On top of that, a deal to use his dad’s artificial intelligence infrastructure to make Paramount+ a more algorithmically driven streaming platform—in the vein of Netflix. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Ellison is simply voicing the transition that’s been well underway. Even smaller players understand this now. Is Roku still primarily a maker of streaming hardware and smart-TV software? Nope—it’s buoyed by its own streaming services, thanks to its namesake Roku Channel, its acquisition of the Frndly streamer, and its launch of a cheaper paid service known as Howdy. (By the way, much like with Netflix, you should no longer expect Roku to report the subscription counts for any of those.) What’s driving Fox Corporation’s growth? Per the Murdochs’ admission, much of it comes from ad sales for Tubi, an app unique in the fact that it remains totally free; now Fox wants to shore up its own brand synergy with a “Fox One” app that will stream live Fox TV, Fox Sports, and Fox News (as separated from the Fox Nation service). Why is Lionsgate slumping? Perhaps because it divested from Starz and has yet to replace that brand with a viable in-house streaming component. Advertisement Popular in Technology The Real Reason Disney Is Killing Hulu Those De-Extinct Dire Wolves Were a Warning. Well, the Next Phase Is Coming. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only I Responded to One of the Spam Texts From a “Recruiter”—Then Took the Job. It Got Weirder Than I Could Have Imagined. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only RFK Jr. Just Did Something That Should Really Anger Certain Trump-Cozy Billionaires. Will It? Netflix, having been first to the party, is still the king. It’s the only service that can operate like a free-for-all hoarder, gobbling up whatever it wants and scaling at its own pace, because it was the pioneer that forced the old guard to catch up with its internet-centric model. Other entertainers, far too late to the streaming world or far too generous with sharing their properties, are finally, belatedly shaping up. It’s no longer about just offering as much as you can (Max’s mistake), granting junior brands any level of autonomy (Disney’s and Paramount’s and Amazon’s and HBO’s mistake), underdeveloping the digital experience (Paramount’s and Disney’s and HBO’s mistake), or simply hoping that big libraries will bring in big subscriber numbers and hard dollars (everyone’s mistake). It’s about ensuring that the territory you do have stays your territory alone, and that it’s synonymous with your broader company name. “We’re at a point, given the way we’re operating our businesses, where we don’t really look at being in the linear business and the streaming business. We’re in the television business,” Bob Iger said on Wednesday. Forget it, Hulu—it’s Disney+. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Disney Netflix TV Hulu Advertisement