Ignoring Inconvenient Economic Data Never Ends Well
Political Gabfest Aug 07, 20255:05 PM Putting the BS in BLS Trump fires the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics; the Texas GOP’s gerrymandering effort ignites a nationwide redistricting arms race; and self-appointed loyalty enforcer Laura Loomer gets more access to the president. Copy Link Share Share View Transcript Advertisement Listen & Subscribe Choose your preferred player: Apple Podcasts Spotify TuneIn Pocket Casts RSS Feed For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. All Slate Plus Podcasts Get Your Slate Plus Podcast If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a valid phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the podcast in your app: Text me the link! We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up manually: How does this work? copy copied! We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer, click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed, check our FAQ. Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Episode Notes This week, Emily Bazelon, David Plotz, and guest host Juliette Kayyem discuss the future integrity of US economic data after Trump fired the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, what the mid-decade redistricting arms race portends for the future of US representative government, and the phenomenon of “Trump’s Rasputin,” Laura Loomer. Here are some notes and references from this week’s show: Ben Casselman for The New York Times: Trump Fired America’s Economic Data Collector. History Shows the Perils. Luke Broadwater for New York Times: Republicans Suddenly Distrust Jobs Data After Trump Fires Statistics Chief Rogé Karma for The Atlantic: The Mystery of the Strong Economy Has Finally Been Solved Eric Levitz for Vox: Turns out the Trump economy is not doing so well after all Nick Timiraos and Brian Schwartz for The Wall Street Journal: Trump Just Got a Fresh Shot at Bending the Fed to His Will Gunjan Banerji, Sam Goldfarb, Jeanne Whalen, and Rachel Wolfe for The Wall Street Journal: What Economy Are We Living In? Our Reporters Talk It Out. Devlin Barrett for The New York Times: Unnoticed Whistle-Blower Document Alarms Justice Department Veterans Jason Furman for The New York Times: The Tariffs Kicked In. The Sky Didn’t Fall. Were the Economists Wrong? Joseph Ax for Reuters: Trump-led Texas redistricting gambit ignites national arms race to control Congress Karen Tumulty for The Washington Post: Democrats take off the gloves on redistricting — but could it backfire? Melanie Mason for Politico: ‘We’re just tired of playing by the rules:’ Newsom bets 2028 chips on redistricting power play Richard L. Hasen for MSNBC: Opinion | Congress is watching Trump launch an unwinnable redistricting war David Daley for The Washington Post (Opinion): Texas ignited a gerrymandering war. We will all pay the price. Hansi Lo Wang for NPR: Trump calls for U.S. census to exclude for the first time people with no legal status Caroline Linton for CBS News Chicago: Bomb threat prompts evacuation at Chicago hotel where some Texas Democrats are staying Will Steakin for ABC News: How Laura Loomer’s pressure campaigns are reshaping the Trump administration Ellie Quinlan Houghtaling for The New Republic: Laura Loomer’s New Influence Is Already Backfiring on Her Greg Jaffe for The New York Times: A Fight Over a West Point Job Reveals Two Visions of America Under Trump Here are this week’s chatters: Emily: Jake Jones for BBC Sport: The rise of padel and why it’s so popular; LTAPadel: Official padel rules explained; Padelexpress on YouTube: The BEST Out-of-Court Points in Padel HISTORY (video 3:52) Juliette: Jack Smart for People: Liam Neeson Kisses Pamela Anderson in Cute Naked Gun Promo: ‘Couple That Laughs Together, Stays Together’; Alyssa Bailey for ELLE: How Pamela Anderson and Liam Neeson Slowly Fell for Each Other: He Was ‘Smitten’ From the Start; Lisa Respers France for CNN: Pamela Anderson is having a moment. And it’s about time David: Anne Appelbaum for The Atlantic: The Most Nihilistic Conflict on Earth; Wednesday on Netflix; Platonic – Season 2 Official Trailer on YouTube (video 2:02) Listener chatter from Bill Jacob in Provincetown, Massachusetts: The Telepathy Tapes: A Podcast Beyond Words, from creator and host Ky Dickens. For this week’s Slate Plus bonus episode, Emily, David, and guest host Juliette Kayyem discuss the benefits and challenges of giving kids more freedom to play outside and participate independently, parent-free, in the real world. In the latest Gabfest Reads, David talks with Carl Hiaasen about his new book, Fever Beach, a political satire for the Trump Era. Email your chatters, questions, and comments to gabfest@slate.com. (Messages may be referenced by name unless the writer stipulates otherwise.) Podcast production by Kevin Bendis Research by Emily Ditto You can find the full Political Gabfest show pages here. Want more Political Gabfest? Join Slate Plus to unlock weekly bonus episodes. Plus, you’ll access ad-free listening across all your favorite Slate podcasts. You can subscribe directly from the Political Gabfest show page on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. Or visit slate.com/gabfestplus to get access wherever you listen. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Bonus Episode Bonus: What Kids Really Want Poll of US children 8-12 shows kids want more unstructured play with other kids, free of adults Copy Link Share Share Donald Trump Gerrymandering Texas Advertisement About the Show Voted “Favorite Political Podcast” by Apple Podcasts listeners. Stephen Colbert says, "Everybody should listen to the Slate Political Gabfest." The Gabfest is hosted by Emily Bazelon, John Dickerson, and David Plotz. Listen for the debates, stay for the cocktail chatter. All episodes Hosts David Plotz is a host of the Slate Political Gabfest and the CEO of City Cast. Emily Bazelon is a staff writer at the New York Times Magazine, the author of Charged and Sticks and Stones, and co-host of the Slate Political Gabfest. Juliette Kayyem is faculty chair of the homeland security and security and global health projects at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. She served as assistant secretary for intergovernmental affairs at the Department of Homeland Security under President Barack Obama.