Josh Brolin Gives Stephen Colbert Some Cheeky Advice After CBS Ousting
Josh Brolin Gives Stephen Colbert Some Cheeky Advice After CBS Ousting The "Weapons" star even offered Colbert a new job. By Marco Margaritoff Trends Reporter Aug 8, 2025, 03:50 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Actor Josh Brolin dropped by “The Late Show” on Thursday to offer Stephen Colbert a job — an opportunity he’d teased in a hilarious video message the day before. While appearing on Colbert’s show on Wednesday, Brolin’s “Weapons” co-star Julia Garner learned that both she and Colbert regularly receive lengthy videos from Brolin — and announced that she had brought one specifically intended for the host. Advertisement Colbert played the video, in which Brolin asked him how his life was going after CBS controversially canceled his program last month. “I want to say, how’s your boat?” Brolin asked Colbert in the clip. “Now that you don’t have a job, you’ll be able to spend more time on the boat. But I have an offer for you when I see you. So just know that. And watch the fucking ‘Goonies,’ man.” The latter comment prompted laughter from the crowd, since Colbert had previously told Brolin that he hadn’t seen “The Goonies” — the beloved coming-of-age adventure classic starring a young Brolin. Advertisement Josh Brolin appeared relieved that Stephen Colbert was seeking more traditional job "benefits." Scott Kowalchyk/CBS Photo Archive/Getty Images Brolin wasn’t joking about Colbert’s impending job loss, however. His show was axed mere days after Colbert slammed CBS parent company Paramount for settling a $16 million lawsuit with President Donald Trump prior to his administration approving Paramount’s merger with Skydance Media. The cancellation caused widespread outrage: Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) suggested it was politically motivated. During his appearance on Colbert’s show Thursday, Brolin made the soon-to-be-unemployed host his promised offer — to become his personal assistant. Advertisement After the audience’s laughter subsided, the actor seemed confused when Colbert asked about accompanying job benefits like health insurance. “Oh, that,” Brolin replied. “Yes, of course. I thought you meant sexual, and I was like, ‘No way!’” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Colbert couldn’t help but laugh. When the host jokingly asked if they were still “on the air” after the innuendo, Brolin asked if it even mattered — prompting a soon-to-be-unemployed Colbert to reply: “No, actually. It doesn’t.” Related Stephen Colbert CBS Paramount josh brolin Stephen Colbert Has Epic Response To Trump's Latest Attack On His Show Trump Administration OKs Skydance Merger With CBS Parent Company Paramount Rosie O'Donnell Spots 'Dangerous' Reason Behind Trump White House Attacking 'The View' Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post