Help! I’ve Cheated on My Wife for Over Two Decades. But a Nasty Surprise Just Changed Everything.
Dear Prudence Help! I’ve Cheated on My Wife for Over Two Decades. But a Nasty Surprise Just Changed Everything. Prudie chats with Slate’s associate advice editor, Logan Sachon, about a committed philanderer at a crossroads. Advice by Jenée Desmond-Harris and Logan Sachon Aug 07, 20251:15 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Jacob Wackerhausen/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Each week, exclusively for Slate Plus members, Prudie discusses a new letter with a fellow Slate colleague. Have a question for Prudie? Submit it here. Dear Prudence, My wife and I have been married for 25 years, and for 24.5 of those years I was unfaithful. She never knew about it; I even missed the birth of our first child because I was in Paris with one of my then-mistresses (I lied and said I was on a business trip). Well, six months ago, a shocking surprise changed everything. I suffered a stroke and couldn’t do anything for myself. I had to relearn everything, and throughout the entire time it was my wife who stood by me like the Rock of Gibraltar. During my convalescence, I did not hear from a single one of my girlfriends. I have 95 percent of my function back and it never would have happened without my wife being there to take care of me and help me through rehab. Now I am overcome with guilt over my actions over the course of my marriage. I can never erase what I did, but I am committed to being the best husband I can from now on. My question is, what do I do with this secret? After everything my wife did for me, the last thing I want to do is hurt her. Would taking this to my grave be the right thing to do? — Eternal Regret Jenée Desmond-Harris: Hey Logan, thank you for filling in today! Hope you enjoy this scandalous/depressing/infuriating break from your actual work. I’m sure you will agree that he should in fact take it to the grave, right? Logan Sachon: You know, I am not sure that I do, Jenée! Jenée: What?! Stop trying to ruin this woman’s life!! But okay go on, explain … Logan: This guy sucks. He cheated on her for 25 years! Now he’s only had a change of heart because she was so good at taking care of him in his time of need—my guess is she’s been taking care of him for 25 years and he never bothered to notice. Even if we can take him at his word that he won’t cheat on her again (and I give him six months tops on that), she deserves to know the truth and to be able to make her own choice here. I mean really, I think she deserves freedom and half of his money. But if she’s not getting that, she at least deserves to be able to make that choice! Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Jenée: Wow, you almost changed my mind. Almost. I did not even consider the possibility that she would leave him, take the house, and create an account on OurTime.com. I have to acknowledge that that could happen. But I think I read this letter through the lens of one of the major beliefs I have about infidelity: I think people who have been cheated on for a long time often turn a blind eye to it intentionally. In other words, if he’s been at it for 25 years and 20 of those years have involved digital technology that makes checking up on people pretty easy, SHE KNOWS. On some level she knows. But she doesn’t want to KNOW-KNOW. That’s just my gut feeling. And my hope is that she’s been cheating on him, too! Logan: OK, that is a very good point. But also, if she already knows, and then he tells her, maybe she’ll say, “I know and I always have known, you idiot,” in which case, maybe they can start over from a place of mutual understanding and respect? Or maybe she could pretend not to hear him and then that is also a choice. Advertisement Advertisement Jenée: Fine, if he wants to tell he can tell. But if he isn’t brave enough to (and I doubt he will be) I think he needs to do more than just stay faithful in the future. I think he should quietly let her win every marital debate for the rest of their lives, as penance. No more compromise. If she likes the fan on and he likes it off, it should always be on. They should take the vacations she prefers. She never has to hang out with relatives of his that she doesn’t like again. And maybe he should tell one friend the secret, and make sure that person holds him accountable. Advertisement But you know what? That’s a fantasy. In my gut I know you’re right that he’s going to cheat again. Logan: I also started buying into your fantasy, though, of him becoming a perfect husband. But I think basically, either he has her best interests at heart or he doesn’t, and as a 25-year cheater, he obviously does not, and I’m just not sure that can change. He should offer to change for sure, but also should be prepared for her to decide she’s done. I mean I also realize I’m coming at this thinking of course she will hear this and be like, yeah, we’re done. But I don’t know! Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Jenée: I’m also struck by the idea that NONE of his girlfriends even sent a text while he recovered from his stroke. I mean, how unlikable do you have to be for that to happen? I feel like I’m being mean because I’m mad at him and I know he wrote to us because he wants to be better. But I’m not coming up with anything very generous. Logan: I was just thinking, OK, how would this be different if he said: 25 years ago, I missed the birth of my first child because I was in Paris with my mistress. It was a real awakening and in the 20 years since, I did everything I could to be a better husband. My wife was so great after the stroke that I now feel so guilty about what I did. In that case, I do think it would be better to take it to the grave and continue to be the best husband ever. Because he’s also proven that he can be, he already changed. I just don’t trust him at all to actually do it now. Jenée: Yep, you’re right. He should tell her, not retain a divorce attorney, and sign whatever her lawyer sends to him. LW, if you’re really sorry, prove it! Don't miss what's new from Prudie Get advice on manners and morals in your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Dear Prudence newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Dear Prudence Slate Plus Advertisement