My Ex and I Had a Wild and Adventurous Phase. It’s Come Back to Haunt Us.
How to Do It My Ex and I Had a Wild and Adventurous Phase. It’s Come Back to Haunt Us. We didn’t think about the consequences. Advice by Jessica Stoya and Rich Juzwiak Aug 07, 20251:07 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by EyeEm Mobile GmbH/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment How to Do It is Slate’s sex advice column. Have a question? Send it to Jessica and Rich here. It’s anonymous! Dear How to Do It, My ex and I were very wild, experimental, open, and unapologetic. And we went through a “phase” for about two years. We were “content creators.” In a short period of time, we uploaded over 100 videos to a popular adult site. We broke up and are working to take the videos down (which is not always easy to do). We thought we did a good job keeping our secret lives under wraps, but the word got out. Lots of people know. I’m not embarrassed or ashamed of what we did, to be clear, but we did not think through all of the potential consequences of our actions. People talk, and the word got around. I was talking to a close female friend just yesterday about this. She candidly explained to me that many women could be intimidated by the whole idea. They won’t understand the distinction between an amateur content creator versus a “ studio actor.” They will just hear: “He was a porn star. His last girlfriend was a porn star! He will be so bored with me.” I don’t want anyone to find out from anyone other than me, but is it really anyone’s business? What is the best way for me to handle this situation moving forward? —It Seemed Like a Good Idea at the Time Get sex advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear How to Do It,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to How to Do It following up) Submit Jessica Stoya: There is a massive perception that men do not also experience social stigma for engaging in this kind of work. But it is a thing. Over the years, a lot of men have come to me and said they want to work in adult entertainment, and I’ve always asked them if they’ve considered their health and safety, systemic prejudice, and also the ways that stigma will affect their personal lives. Every single one of them has said to me, “Oh, but I’m a man. I’m different.” That’s not the case. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Rich Juzwiak: Right. It’s probably less than what women or other gender minorities experience, I would assume, right? Jessica: It all exists on a scale. Rich: Yes. I know people who make content, and I know that these negative reactions are a thing in the gay world, but I think less so. But I also think that there are a lot of guys, at least in Brooklyn, who just don’t care. I’m sure that there are a lot of uptight gays in Brooklyn who also care about someone being a content creator, but I think it’s about finding your tribe. At least it’s not the ‘90s, when a “sex tape” could really ruin somebody’s life and career. Jessica: But that still happens pretty regularly… The last one that sticks out in my mind is from 2020. It was a female car mechanic who was fired over her OnlyFans. Advertisement Rich: Perhaps we could say that it’s easier now, though, right? Because more people are doing it, the freedom to make content has just kind of proliferated in a way. I think there’s a Kim Kardashian effect as well, where people saw her build a career from having a “sex tape” out there. So all I’m saying is that it’s possible to find your tribe. You can be accepted within a certain circle, and not have this be such a huge stigma that it’ll prevent all relationships and force you to be a shunned pariah. Advertisement Jessica: I completely agree with your last point. But I need to point out that, though there’s a public perception that it’s easier now, we are having a global rapid swing back of the pendulum toward extremely conservative values, and we’re living in a world where algorithms can find things in an instant. So I need to give that warning to anyone reading this. Advertisement Advertisement Rich: That’s a good point. Progress rarely moves in a straight, upward trajectory. It’s similar to gay rights. If you read Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940, you’ll learn that there were lots of pockets where people were accepting of expressions of sexuality, homosexuality, and also actual homosexual relationships, but backlash intensified around the 1930s. So I think that’s a really good reminder that, despite the widespreadness of content creation, it’s not going to be a walk in the park, which is, again, to your initial point, something to consider beforehand. Jessica: I always recommend considering the risks before people actually cross that bridge, but I’m also really reluctant to chide anyone for having crossed that bridge without considering it. It’s really hard for a person who isn’t already friends with a bunch of people in any industry, including content creation, to have any idea what it’s actually like. Rich: So now that he’s there, what to do? Jessica: To circle back to your find your tribe point, that’s really the move. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Rich: Also, that would include looking outside of this gossiping circle, right? You’re in search of the tribe; it’s not something that you find tomorrow. Jessica: Yes, and the tribe can encompass anyone who thinks your job is interesting to someone who’s like, “Eh, I don’t really care.” There’s a wide range, just like there’s also likely to be a wide range of rejections. There will likely be people exactly like the writer’s close female friend described, but there will also be things like, “Ah, it’s going to be hard to explain to my mom,” or, “The kind of person who would take that sort of risk has a personality that’s too bold for me,” or, “Hmm, actually, it turns out I’m really conservative and that’s a me thing.” And then there will be the occasional person telling you that you’re going to hell and is really serious about it. Advertisement Advertisement Rich: There also have to be people who are like, “Oh, great, that sounds exciting. You sound like a great time.” To me, it’s a plus if I find out somebody does that, because I tend to assume, OK, you’re into sex enough that you want to do it beyond recreation. You probably know a thing or two about it. You’re probably fun. Again, not necessarily always the case, obviously, but if I’m making a snap judgment, to me it’s a plus, not a minus. Advertisement Jessica: So as to whether it’s anyone’s business, I’m not quite sure how to interpret that one. It’s on the internet indelibly, and one time, I called it Murphy’s Law of Inappropriate Behavior. It does irritate me that the internet consistently turns up not the essays I’ve done for respectable publications, but instead stupid drive-by videos at conventions, where someone’s asking you, “Hey, can you spell cunnilingus?” It’s part of it. The reality is, because of Murphy’s Law, it’s probably going to be everyone’s business. Advertisement Rich: Also, you did publish something publicly, so you made it people’s business for those who want to watch. That’s the genie that you can’t put back into the bottle. It shouldn’t be a mark on anyone’s reputation or ease of living. But we live in a different world from the utopia in our heads. So, “should” I don’t think it applies. I’m curious to hear what you have to say, but I have a kind of practical idea of how to contend with this, which is, don’t lie, but also, no one is entitled to any piece of your biographical information, especially early on. Your life is your business to tell it as you wish and to reveal things as they come up or don’t. But don’t lie. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement If someone on a first date says, “Oh, I think I saw you in a video,” or, “I have ideas about people who’ve been in videos, and I want to run this by you to see if this applies to you,” I would say don’t lie, because then you’re just going to be in a series of lies, and who wants to live like that? Advertisement Jessica: I think it’s perfectly reasonable and valid for a person to say, “I’m really threatened by how sexual I’m assuming you are, is that accurate?” which gives the performer in question the opportunity to say, “It was a phase,” or, “Actually, wild, and experimental, open, and unapologetic is how I want to live my life, just not on camera anymore.” I think it’s also really valid for a person to say, “Your risk tolerance is uncomfortably high for me,” in the same way that it’s valid for someone to decide they can’t be with someone who likes to put a lot of stuff on credit cards. So it’s absolutely something that, outside of stigma and judgment based on assumptions, people are going to have really reasonable reactions of “no” toward. Advertisement Rich: For sure, and I think many reasons are fine to dismiss somebody as a potential mate. We need filters. What you’re envisioning are extremely civil exchanges in which emotionally mature people are able to get at those emotions and share them in a way that’s not tearing somebody down. What I think shouldn’t happen is for people to be mistreated as a result of the legitimate work that they did. Advertisement Jessica: The reality, as I’ve seen it, is mostly in this middle, where they’re not in touch with all of the emotions that they’re experiencing and where those are coming from. Then, you date for some time, and then these behaviors and comments start. Finally, at a certain point, either one person asks or the other person blurts it out, usually in an argument, “Oh, actually, this thing is really a problem, and I didn’t want to judge you for your career.” Advertisement And it’s like, actually, you’re reacting to something that is pretty reasonable to assume about a person, based on the fact that they chose to have sex in videos. So it’s like this arc of desire to be accepting in response to a controversial detail, which causes them to shove down discomfort about a thing that’s a really good reason to say, “This isn’t going to work,” and then it does get messy. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Rich: It’s kind of insidious, then, the stigma. It’s not necessarily going to be presented as an all-out rejection, like, “Hi, I did porn.” “OK, bye.” It’s way more complicated than that. Jessica: Yes. Part of the reason I’ve led us on this whole adventure is so our writer has some signposts to look for of what could be a complex reaction by a person who really wants to be accepting and is then not looking at the whole picture. Rich: We’re hearing a firsthand account from you, as someone who has been through it and is going through it, and you allude to difficulties, but you are smiling and generally upbeat. It hasn’t destroyed you. Don’t let me tell you about your life, but from what I can tell, this is a fact of your life. This is a thing to deal with. We have biographical information about ourselves that can be held against us or makes us interesting in public, right? So it sounds to me like it’s just a kind of complication that comes up a lot and that you deal with, but that you learn to deal with. Advertisement Advertisement Jessica: You are absolutely correct. It is a fact of life. The fact that I will forever be a porn star has a way of just cranking the dial up and making issues appear early and fast. I like that efficiency. Advertisement But that’s not for everyone, and that leads really nicely into my perspective on how to handle it. For me, your stance is on one side of the range. I don’t think anyone should ever lie about it or avoid speaking up in a moment that was clearly the time to mention the content creation. And pretty far on the other side of the range is how I handle it. When I meet someone, it usually goes like this: “Hey, what do you do?” “I write.” “What do you write about?” “Sexuality.” “How’d you get into that?” “Oh, I used to work more directly with sex.” Advertisement And my choices in those moments are either to flee the conversation before we get there, interrupt and ask them what they do very abruptly, or let the conversation unfold. Any honest answer to a very common series of questions among people meeting each other is going to lead pretty directly to, “Yeah, for 20 years, I worked in the adult media industry in front of the camera,” and so I’m letting it be gotten over with quickly. Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Laura Helmuth I Monitor the Security Cameras at Work. I Just Saw Something I Definitely Shouldn’t Have. Read More Rich: Right, but that generally works for you, as you said? Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Jessica: Yes. It’s not always easy, but largely, people are polite. They might judge you behind your back. But people are largely civil in these initial, fairly superficial exchanges. And so for our writer, you get to actually experiment with what feels comfortable for you. For instance, if I’m at a book release party in Brooklyn, I’ll say I was a porn performer. But if we’re in a storefront in the middle of the day, I’m going to say, “I used to perform in sexual media,” because that’s in a more of an indoor voice and also avoids the word that might stick in a child’s ear and cause them to go home and say, “Mom and Dad, what’s porn?” because nobody needs that. So, you also get to kind of shift your behavior based on what feels appropriate in that moment. Advertisement Advertisement Rich: Right, so our letter writer can really just see what works for them. This is a letter written out of anxiety, because he doesn’t quite know where things are going to go yet, and that’s why it’s scary. But again, you can live your life and figure out how to dole out its facts as you would any other fact, really, through experience. More Advice From Slate My wife and I have been married for almost three years and together for almost nine. We’ve been through our share of ups and downs and I love being with her. However, we don’t have sex too often and I think it’s taking a toll on both of us. We used to do it a lot more often when we were in college, but with a new house, dog, and our jobs, we’re both usually too tired to rise to the occasion… Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Sex Slate Plus Advertisement