Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son.
Care and Feeding Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. Advice by Nicole Chung Aug 07, 202512:03 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Care and Feeding is Slate’s parenting advice column. Have a question for Care and Feeding? Submit it here. Dear Care and Feeding, My mom lives several states away. We see her a couple times a year, but my children don’t know her well because of the distance. Meanwhile, my sister lives around the corner from her, so her kids have a completely different relationship with “Grandma” than mine do. She recently visited us, and I needed her to pick my 8-year-old up from day camp. It would be just the two of them for a few hours before I got off work, something that hasn’t happened before—usually I’m around or my sister’s kids. Well, that day, my son did not have a good time at camp and apparently didn’t talk much after pickup. He was even quiet with me once we met up. My mom said that she had to spend all afternoon with my son, and he wouldn’t talk to her. We had planned to get ice cream together, but my mom asked me to drop her off at the house instead. She later told me that my son needs to be taught how to respond to people. I have tried reading him books about interacting with people, I have role-played with him and read many articles on how to help him. I don’t know how to make my shy, sensitive child respond to people he is uncomfortable with. Do you have tips? How can I help my mom to have a better relationship with him? —Grandma/Grandson Mediator Dear Mediator, First, it is 100 percent OK that your son is shy and sensitive and just not a big talker. Of course, if you or his physician or teachers ever have reason to be concerned that there’s something more going on, you can always have him evaluated, but based on your letter alone I don’t see any evidence of that? He’s 8. He is still learning and developing, and in the coming years he will change a lot and learn to communicate in all sorts of ways. But also, anyone, at any age, can easily clam up when they’re with someone they don’t feel comfortable with, especially when they get the sense that person might be judging them! Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement I think this was your mom’s communication failure, not your kid’s. Seriously, who is the adult here? Your mother seems to be expecting that a close relationship with your son will magically happen with no effort on her part at all, which is completely unrealistic. They don’t really know each other, it sounds like, and so she should try to remedy that before expecting him to converse at length with her. The very worst way to get to know an 8-year-old is to sit there asking him a bunch of rapid-fire questions, judging him (and sulking!) when he struggles to respond. Instead, your mom should have tried to spend time with your son doing things he does enjoy—reading, playing outside, preparing and eating a treat, making slime, doing a puzzle or a game, whatever; this all sounds very boring because it is. It’s just basic! You hang out with a kid, doing whatever it is they like to do. You show them that you care about them and like being with them. Congratulations: You have bonded with a child. Advertisement If you want to, you can try to help facilitate that by talking with your mom about who your son is and what his interests are, and being present during her visits to help with conversation and suggest activities. But first I think she needs to take responsibility for her part in the dynamic, and try for a necessary change in attitude the next time she sees your son. Instead of expecting him—again, a child!—to automatically feel comfortable with her and perform a closeness that doesn’t yet exist, she should do whatever she can to meet him where he is and cultivate genuine closeness by showing that she cares about and wants to spend time with him. Advertisement Get parenting advice from Nicole—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Care and Feeding,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Care and Feeding following up) Submit Dear Care and Feeding, Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. I have a 3-year-old toddler who is minimally speaking. We’re in speech therapy and doing evals, and I don’t need advice there. But sometimes at the playground, a kid will ask why he’s not talking, and I don’t know what to do. I usually say something like, “He’s not ready to talk yet,” but is there a better line here? I expect we’ll get this more as he gets older, and saying “he’s not ready to talk yet” might not even be true—I don’t know why he’s not talking! Advertisement Maybe I’m overthinking this, but I’d love a go-to line. Thanks! —Quiet Mama Dear Quiet Mama, If the kid who’s asking is just being curious and/or a little nosy (i.e., being a kid), I would probably keep it brief and just say, “He’s working on it.” If the other kid is asking because they want to interact or play with your child, you could choose to suggest something they can do without having a whole long verbal conversation: “He’s working on it. He doesn’t talk a lot right now, but he might love to [fill in fun activity here that your kid enjoys] with you, if you want to!” —Nicole More Parenting Advice From Slate My sister-in-law, “Kate,” is very protective of my 8-year-old nephew, “Adam,” to the point that she still sometimes treats him like he’s 3. To be clear, he doesn’t have any developmental/ behavioral/neurodivergent diagnoses; he might be a bit on the sensitive side, but it’s honestly hard to tell if that’s just who he is, or the result of Kate treating him the way she does. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Family Kids Advertisement