Help! My Mother-in-Law Insists on Giving Me Grossly Intimate Gifts. My Husband Just Says to “Humor Her.”
Dear Prudence Help! My Mother-in-Law Insists on Giving Me Grossly Intimate Gifts. My Husband Just Says to “Humor Her.” I can’t take another one of these “presents.” Advice by Jenée Desmond-Harris Follow Jenée Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Jenee_DesmondHarris newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Jenée Desmond-Harris? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 07, 20256:02 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Images via fizkes/iStock/Getty Images Plus and sudhaben sachapara/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Dear Prudence is Slate’s advice column. Submit questions here. Dear Prudence, My mother-in-law bought me a dozen pairs of underwear (don’t ask why!). They are three sizes too large and are, in fact, granny panties. This is not the first time she has given me a bizarre gift; she has given me everything from home enema kits to live Venus flytraps! I have told her as tactfully as possible that while I appreciate the thought, I’m rather difficult to shop for, so I would prefer she save her money. It goes in one ear and out the other. My husband is no help, as he says to “just humor her.” Frankly, I’m fed up with getting rid of all these things I neither want nor need. Any suggestions on how to get her to quit with the unwanted gifting? —Take the Fucking Hint Dear Hint, I’m with your husband. Just humor her. She buys you weird stuff, I would guess, because she’s retired and on a fixed income but wants to be thoughtful and generous and can’t resist snatching up whatever free or extremely cheap things cross her path. I do get that it’s annoying, but can you reframe it as being annoying in a harmless way rather than annoying in a way that must be stopped? And think about whether the presents are bugging you because they represent something else that you find really upsetting. Maybe your husband’s weak boundaries with his mom, or belief that his mom can do no wrong? Maybe her lack of interest in getting to know you as a person and learning about what you actually like? Or maybe you’re wishing you had more contact with your own mom, who would never buy you enemas unless you explicitly asked? Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement In the meantime, post the unwanted items in your local Buy Nothing group, and enjoy the good feelings that come when a neighbor who would absolutely love some XXL panties and a Venus Fly trap gets to have them for free. Get advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Prudence,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Dear Prudence following up) Submit Dear Prudence, We live in a crowded West Coast city, with a sizable backyard but sandwiched on both sides by banks of townhouses that go pretty much to the property line. The townhouses on one side of us have taken to putting their garbage and recycling bins on our property for pick-up days because there is nowhere to put the bins on their property that wouldn’t block one of their parking spots. They did not ask us for permission before doing this. (For clarity there are four townhouses, but we’ve only interacted with one set of residents. Also, we’re talking three bins in total, placed on our grass just off of the back alley. This stretch of grass leads to a parking slab that we use on occasion but rarely—usually we street park in the front of the house.) Advertisement I’m torn about what to do—they are good neighbors, and we’ve never had a problem with them. The act of placing the bins on our property has only inconvenienced us once—maybe six months ago there was no street parking on a garbage pick-up day, so we parked in the back and had to move the bins—but the principle rubs me the wrong way a bit. The townhouses were built after we moved in, and I will say that we were dismayed during the building process about a massive, primary growth tree that was felled and at the lack of off-street parking, so maybe we’re unfairly displacing grumpiness about the developers onto the residents. Advertisement Advertisement Anyway, should we throw some good into the universe and let this very minor incursion onto our property slide? Or is there something to my hunch that allowing a neighbor to use our property weekly in perpetuity might have consequences I haven’t yet thought of? —Not a Real Problem, I Know Advertisement Dear Not a Real Problem, I have to admit I’ve been mulling this over for longer than I expected. Your issue may be relatively low stakes but it’s a tough one! One thing I’m sure of is that peaceful relationships with neighbors are priceless. And of course, even if you’re totally right about your position, being in any kind of conflict with people who live right next door is not a great thing. As I finish moving into my new home, I’ve been reading a little about feng shui. Whether or not you totally embrace all the ideas about the flow of energy, no one can deny that regularly looking at something (a cluttered corner, a mirror that reflects a mess, or the front door of a neighbor who pisses you off) that makes you go “ugh” or puts a knot in your stomach really takes away from how good you feel in your home. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement So I spent some time trying to figure out what would feel worse—the sense of being violated by your neighbors’ trash can habits, or the tension that might result if you rightfully ask them to stop and they don’t take it well. (And of course there’s a real possibility that they won’t take it well. If people only did what was fair and managed their emotions, advice columns would cease to exist. Plus, their willingness to put trash on your property without your permission is one piece of data we have that suggests they’re not the most conscientious or eager-to-please people on the block.) Advertisement I wonder if there’s a middle ground. Is there something that will chip away at these people’s sense of entitlement to use that space? Is there a way forward that makes you feel less like you’re being taken advantage of, and establishes that you’re doing them a favor, but won’t lead to bad feelings? Advertisement What about a note like this: “Hi neighbors. We noticed you’re been placing your trash cans in the accessway to our parking slab, and we can completely understand why! The developer didn’t include any space for yours, which is just one of many questionable decisions including cutting down that beautiful tree. Anyway, it’s normally fine with us except when we need to use the slab, for example when we have a guest who can’t walk from the street, need to bring in large items, or can’t find street parking. Could I have your number to text you just in case that’s ever the case on a trash day? Mine is 123-4567. Thanks for understanding, and I hope all is well with you.” Add a smiley face and stick it to the garbage can. Want more Prudie? Slate Plus members get an additional column each week. Sign up for Slate Plus now. Advertisement Dear Prudence, I was in my former stepdaughter’s life since she was 4. “Kara’s” biological mother was a functional narcissist that never wanted anything to do with being a mom. I truly thought of Kara as my own until she became a teenager and her mom showed back up again. The woman introduced Kara to pot and did everything possible to poison my relationship with Kara. And it worked. Kara became rebellious, destructive, and finally physically violent towards me and her toddler brother. My ex refused to see the writing on the wall until Kara got arrested for serious thefts and assaulted a police officer. She was 14 at the time, and I was living separately from her father. Advertisement This was the final straw, and I filed for divorce and moved back home. My ex blamed me for his financial difficulties and not being able to afford a lawyer for Kara. He was so focused on Kara that he failed to visit or see our son for 4 years. I have slowly built a new life with my son but have no plans to ever remarry. Kara has been in and out of jail for the past decade. I haven’t seen her since she was 14 and her last words to me was wishing I was dead and that she never loved me. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Well, Kara apparently has been trying to turn her life around and finished rehab. She has contacted me on social media wanting to reconnect. Part of me remembers the little girl that called me mommy, but a large part remembers the horrors of the last few years where I was afraid to even be in my own home or my son could get hurt by his own sister. What should I do? Do I owe Kara anything? I know Kara isn’t living with her father currently. —About Kara Dear About Kara, I was prepared to tell you to go ahead and accept her invitation to connect, until I read the line “Do I owe Kara anything?” If you told me you were tempted to be in touch because you missed her, or had a new perspective on how tough things must have been for her as a teenager, or felt sincerely moved to be there for her at this stage of her life, I would tell you to go for it. But a relationship based on perceived obligation (and still tinged with a lot of resentment on your end) isn’t going to be rewarding for either of you. So keep your distance. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement You deserve a new life with your son, free from being deprioritized and unfairly blamed like you felt you were when Kara and her dad were your family. And Kara deserves relationships with people who aren’t holding her adolescent behavior against her. Classic Prudie I’m a full-on adult who can’t seem to handle arguments. From major disagreements with loved ones to mild, low-stakes debates online, I just feel awful when I get into it with someone. My heart races, my jaw clenches, I can’t think about anything else, I make counterarguments in my head endlessly, and I generally feel like garbage. Don't miss what's new from Prudie Get advice on manners and morals in your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Dear Prudence newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Dear Prudence Advertisement