I Monitor the Security Cameras at Work. I Just Saw Something I Definitely Shouldn’t Have.
Good Job I Monitor the Security Cameras at Work. I Just Saw Something I Definitely Shouldn’t Have. Advice by Laura Helmuth Aug 07, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Motortion/iStock/Getty Images Plus and EvgeniyShkolenko/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Good Job is Slate’s advice column on work. Have a workplace problem big or small? Send it to Laura Helmuth and Doree Shafrir here. (It’s anonymous!) Dear Good Job, There has been an ongoing rivalry between two women at my workplace, “Debby” and “Barbara.” Recently, it’s taken an ugly turn. Debby has begun an affair with Barbara’s husband (he works in our company, but in a different department). I know because I work in security, and one of the cameras picked them up “getting cozy” in a conference room. Should I say something to Barbara, or just stay out of this one? —People Don’t Understand That Cameras Are Everywhere Dear People Don’t Understand That Cameras Are Everywhere, Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Before we get to your question, I want to thank you for this public service announcement and echo it: People, cameras are everywhere! (That’s assuming Debby and Barbara’s husband aren’t exhibitionists or risk-lovers who wanted someone to see them.) Anyway, as tempting as it is to join in the drama, you’re safer watching this triangle from the other side of a video screen. Let’s game it out. You’re probably right that this is an affair, and that Debby is getting a thrill out of sneaking around with her rival’s husband. But it’s possible Barbara and her husband have an open relationship or are separating for other reasons. If so, telling Barbara could embarrass or upset her needlessly. It’s possible—likely even—that Debby initiated the affair to hurt Barbara and hopes someone will notice the goo-goo eyes she and Barbara’s husband are making at each other across a crowded conference room. Debby might even want someone to warn Barbara, and Debby doesn’t deserve the pleasure. Or the affair might simmer down on its own without causing lasting damage. In any case, telling Barbara what you saw risks disrupting work performance for any or all three of them. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Doree Shafrir My Boss Has a New Lunch Rule. It Would Make Sense in a Middle School—Not a Professional Office. Read More If Debby and Barbara’s husband keep fooling around on camera, you and the rest of the security team can ask human resources to send around a staff-wide memo reminding people to keep their pants on in the conference rooms. (They’ll come up with more professional language about office-appropriate conduct.) That memo will raise more questions than it answers, but at least it’ll encourage the cheaters to get a (hotel) room. —Laura More Advice From Slate My dad passed away last year and my mom is in delicate health. My dad invested well and there is enough to keep her comfortable even if she lives to 102. We don’t have a close relationship but my brother is unreliable, at best, so when she asked me to be the executor of the will I agreed. But now that I know more about the will, I’m horrified. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Slate Plus Workplace Jobs Advertisement