I Did a Crossword Puzzle at Work. My Colleague’s Reaction Has Floored Me.
Good Job I Did a Crossword Puzzle at Work. My Colleague’s Reaction Has Floored Me. This is unhinged! Advice by Laura Helmuth Aug 07, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Sate. Photo by demaerre/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Good Job is Slate’s advice column on work. Have a workplace problem big or small? Send it to Laura Helmuth and Doree Shafrir here. (It’s anonymous!) Dear Good Job, I work at a community theater and love my job (I’m certainly not doing it for the money!). We offer a coat check for our patrons, and we keep a stash of books and magazines for staff to peruse during downtime. Recently, someone contributed several magazines, which included crossword puzzles, one of which I partially completed. Several days later, I walked into our lunch room and saw that someone had torn out the page and posted it on our community bulletin board with the message “DO NOT WRITE IN THE MAGAZINES” scrawled over it in red Sharpie! I was stunned by how aggressive it was, and later that day, my co-worker, “Vanessa,” sent out an even more aggressive all staff email where she explained how “appalled” she was that someone would find it appropriate to work on a crossword puzzle in a magazine “intended for the community to share and not for one person to claim as their own by writing in it.” I was shocked and later found out that they weren’t even magazines she donated. The next day, I saw that she had posted a sign in the coat check saying, “DO NOT WRITE IN THE MAGAZINES (INCLUDING PUZZLES)—THEY ARE FOR EVERYONE IN OUR COMMUNITY.” No one seems to agree with her, but no one is calling her out on her behavior either, which I would consider to be unhinged and possibly a sign of a mental health issue. She is someone I would call quirky, but she has never done anything like this before. Part of me thinks I should own up to my behavior and apologize to her to smooth things over, but I’m concerned she’s so unstable that she could retaliate against me. If we had a human resources department, I would report this, but it is a very small organization, so I am hesitant to bring this up to management. Vanessa has been here for longer than I have and is friends with my manager, so I’m wary of getting on her bad side. What on earth should I do? I’m hoping that this will blow over, but I feel genuinely unsettled when I’m around her now and don’t know where to turn. —Magazine Mayhem Dear Magazine Mayhem, Yikes! Vanessa’s response to a filled-in puzzle is hostile, irrational, and wrong. Puzzles are for solving. Donated magazines aren’t library books. (And tearing out a page to pin to the bulletin board is much more destructive.) All-caps messages should be for EMERGENCIES ONLY. Don’t apologize; you did nothing wrong. You’re right to worry about getting on Vanessa’s bad side. I suspect she has more of them than a set of 20-sided dice. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement A lot of workplaces have a “Vanessa”—someone who erupts unpredictably but does their job well enough the rest of the time that they’re tolerated. It could be a personality disorder, a love of drama (maybe part of why she’s drawn to community theater?), or something terrible could be happening in her personal life. Regardless of the reason for their erratic behavior, people like this make the workplace more stressful for everyone else. I encourage any managers reading this to not just hope that your Vanessa problem will solve itself. Recognize that your Vanessa will keep causing unnecessary conflicts. Ask them to take a leave if they need to address underlying problems. Warn them that workplace outbursts are unacceptable and could lead to termination. But back to your specific problem, Magazine Mayhem. Your manager and her manager surely saw Vanessa’s hostile notices, so you don’t need to point out her latest. But you could ask either or both of them how concerned you should be. Let them know Vanessa’s messages worried you, and ask for advice on working with her productively. Say explicitly that you’d like to keep the conversation confidential. (Small organizations often have poor boundaries.) They may be willing to share some history. If Vanessa has never blown up like this before, stay wary, but she might not be a persistent challenge. If they admit that she has a bad temper and regularly insults her co-workers, ask them what they suggest “we” do about it. (The “we” here means “you managers,” but it’s a less aggressive way to ask, “So are you going to do your leadership job here or what?”) Advertisement Realistically, Vanessa and her outbursts might not go away soon. So erect some boundaries of your own by avoiding her and recognizing that whatever she’s upset about is her problem, not yours. Donate a book of crossword puzzles or other games, or bring in a jigsaw puzzle for everyone to work on together. Or suggest that your theater stage Murder on the Orient Express so your company can act out its frustrations with this particularly maddening character. Advertisement Get work advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Good Job,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Good Job following up) Submit Dear Good Job, My boss is a nepo baby and failed up. His dad owns the company, and he was placed in his position after my previous boss retired. “Cole” is 25 and barely out of his MBA program (how he managed to complete it is a mystery for the ages). Myself and my other co-workers are constantly having to correct his mistakes and complete his work for him; often, he will show up to work more than an hour late. Everyone is exhausted and fed up, but Cole can do no wrong in his dad’s eyes. Is looking for a new job the only option? —Sick of Covering for Him Advertisement Dear Sick of Covering for Him, Ugh, Cole. So many failson Coles in this nepotistic world are making work miserable for the rest of us. If yours were a better-run company with conflict-of-interest policies and a functioning human resources department, you would have more options for reporting the problems Cole is causing. I’m assuming that’s not the case here, as is typical for many family-owned businesses. (Unfortunately, incompetent nepo babies are also typical. Hey, how you doin’, Eric and Don Jr.?) Advertisement Advertisement Do freshen up your resume and start looking around for another job. But it’s not entirely hopeless. I’m not sure from your question whether Cole is the boss of everyone, or just the boss of your department. If Cole has a boss who is not his father, ask for a meeting with that person and very delicately ask their advice. Remember, if this person is stuck between Cole and Cole’s father, they are in a worse position than you. They might be grateful for more details about the mistakes Cole is making and be brave enough to suggest to Dad that Cole could learn the business better from the ground up—starting in a non-managerial position. (We can dream.) Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Laura Helmuth My Colleague Wants Me to Move Desks Because I’ve “Made Her Uncomfortable.” Uh, This Isn’t My Fault! Read More That’s probably the best-case scenario, but there are a few others. Cole might eventually get transferred to a new position to learn about another division, or he might be promoted as he continues to fail upward. If you can wait it out, either move would take some pressure off your team. Or you could flatter Cole into hiring more people. Tell him your team really wants to shine under his leadership, and you think you could do great things with more people. Expanding his team would give Cole even more power within the company, which is gross (and probably inevitable), but it would give you and your overworked co-workers some relief. The riskiest proposition is to stop covering for Cole. If no one corrects his mistakes or does his work for him, he’ll have to start doing his work himself or explain why his department is suddenly failing. This might end with Cole blaming and firing all of you, so be careful. But if the fate of this company is in Cole and his dad’s hands, it’s likely to fail downward eventually anyway. Advertisement Slate Plus members get more Good Job every week. Sign up now to read Laura Helmuth’s additional column this week. Dear Good Job, A good friend is bringing as her plus-one to my wedding a woman who works at my office, whom I cannot stand. Would it be permissible for me to tell her this friend of hers is not welcome and to choose someone else? Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. —Anyone But Her Dear Anyone But Her, Yes, tell your friend that you don’t want this co-worker at your wedding—but lie about the reason why. If you say you cannot stand the person she picked as her plus-one, it could hurt your friend’s feelings and potentially get back to your co-worker or other people in your overlapping circles. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Instead, tell your friend that it would be awkward to have your co-worker attend, even as a plus-one, because you didn’t invite everyone from your office and don’t want to create rifts at work. Say you’re trying to separate your work world from your friends and family world. (If some people from your office did make it onto your wedding invitation A-list, explain that those are people who are friends as well as co-workers, and you have a relationship with them outside of work.) Sweeten the conversation if necessary by telling your good friend that you are thrilled she can join you on your wedding day, and you look forward to meeting her second-choice plus-one. —Laura More Advice From Slate My husband and I can live very comfortably on my family’s money for the rest of our lives. I handle the bills, including travel or major purchases. We have separate bank accounts and share one credit card (paid by me), and he receives about $15,000 to $20,000 every year. This works until he makes a significant purchase. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Workplace Jobs Advertisement