MEN Frontpage Sport Football Manchester City FC Sport Palermo vs Man City LIVE early team news plus how to watch and kick off time for pre-season friendly Manchester City are in Italy for a pre-season friendly against Palermo today. men Bookmark Share Comments By Simon BajkowskiChief Manchester City writer Alex James Updated17:51, 9 AUG 2025 Bookmark Manchester City take on Palermo in a pre-season friendly Manchester City take on Palermo in a pre-season friendly tonight as preparations ramp up for the new campaign. Pep Guardiola's side face their sister club in Sicily with an 8pm kick off. The fixture comes seven days before City's Premier League opener at Wolves. City have had a protracted summer having taken part in the expanded Club World Cup, where they were knocked out in the last 16 by Al Hilal. The squad were then given time off before returning to training at the end of July. Guardiola has selected a 22-man squad for the game against their Serie B opponents but several stars are absent. Jack Grealish, James McAtee and Stefan Ortega have been left in Manchester as they seek moves away while the likes of Rodri - who will not be fully fit until after the September international break - Phil Foden, Josko Gvardiol and Claudio Echeverri have not travelled through fitness issues. We will have all the action, reaction and analysis covered here, so stay with us. Kick off is at 8pm. 17:51Alex James Talking City Some of you may already follow our Talking City podcast across all the usual platforms but for those who don't . . . why not check it out ahead of the new campaign. The latest episode is live as Chief City Writer Simon Bajkowski joined host Alex James to chat through how City are shaping up ahead of the big kick off. We were at open training this week to assess the squad and discuss the potential transfers to come over the coming weeks and how City might look at lining up at Wolves in seven days time. There's plenty of exciting content planned throughout the new season and hopefully some special guests too so why not subscribe from your usual podcast provider or like us over on You Tube. Share Comments 17:35Alex James How will City line up? So how will City line up today? It's safe to assume that the entire travelling squad will feature and it's possible it could be two different teams in each half. City's first choice XI probably has half a dozen names inked in but one of them - Rodri - is not fit enough to play 90 minutes at the moment while another - Josko Gvardiol - is at home as a precaution. Erling Haaland will lead City's line while Ruben Dias is surely a safe bet at centre back, as is Rayan Ait-Nouri on the left. It feels somewhat logical to include Bernardo Silva in the side as well given he is captain but the rest of the XI is not certain. Phil Foden and Tijjani Reijnders would expect to be in the side but the make-up of the three players behind Haaland will be intriguing. Will Ederson or James Trafford get the nod in goal? And will it be Rico Lewis or Mathues Nunes at right back? We will find out the confirmed team news for tonight in around 70 minutes Share Comments 17:19Alex James Pre-season so far Usually, the week before the season starts we would bring you up to speed on all the friendlies played so far and the intricacies of the fixtures. . . . But City haven't played in a month and this is their only bona fide pre-season fixture. The Club World Cup impacted the summer schedule with nobody knowing whether City's participation would be over inside a week or whether they would still be in action as the competition reached a climax in mid July. In the end City lost in the last 16 to Al Hilal and subsequently the players had three weeks off before returning to pre-season training late last month. It means the Blues will be keen to get minutes into legs tonight with all 22 players set to be involved. The Premier League gets under way in a matter of days and City will hope their protracted summer means they are coming to the boil at just the right time ahead of the first few fixtures before the September international break. Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola (Image: MOHAMED TAGELDIN/Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images) Share Comments 17:02Alex James How to watch tonight's game The match between Palermo and City kicks off at 8pm UK time. The game is being streamed live on City +, City's in-house streaming service,unless you are based in Italy, where it is not available. The service can accessed via the club website or official mobile app. An annual subscription usually costs £34.99 but City are running a promotion ahead of the match that makes it available for the year at £19.99. All supporters have to do is use code 'PALERMO15' at checkout. Manchester City players train ahead of their return to action Share Comments 16:41Alex James Rodri blow In case you missed it last night, Pep Guardiola confirmed City will not see a fit Rodri until after the September international break after he suffered a setback at the Club World Cup. The Spaniard came on against Al Hilal in the last-16 but suffered a groin problem in what Guardiola described as a 'big injury'. As reported by the Manchester Evening News this week, Rodri has mostly been doing individual work since the players returned to the City Football Academy last week. He has taken part in the last two sessions but was not included in the squad to travel to Palermo for a friendly this weekend and will not be ready to play 90 minutes against Wolves. City's manager still has hope that the Ballon d'Or winner can feature against Wolves, Spurs and Brighton but does not expect to see anything like the best version of Rodri until after the international break. Read the full story here Rodri has suffered an injury blow on the eve of the new Premier League season Share Comments 16:24Alex James Welcome along We are just seven days away from City kicking off their Premier League campaign at Wolves. The Blues have not been in action since their surprise Club World Cup exit to Al Hilal but return this evening with a friendly against sister club Palermo. Pep Guardiola has named a 22-man squad for the occasion but is missing several players through injury with Rodri the headline injury concern having suffered a setback on his return to full fitness. We will have all the build-up, action, reaction and analysis so stay with us. Share Comments More On Manchester City FC Sport all Most Read Most Recent Player ratingsManchester United player ratings vs Fiorentina as Bryan Mbeumo and Bruno Fernandes good Man United drew with Fiorentina before winning a penalty shootout in their final pre-season friendly and here are how the players rated at Old Trafford. Manchester United vs Fiorentina highlights and reaction as Reds win shootout after 1-1 draw Manchester United fixtures Man United brought their pre-season schedule to a close with a penalty shootout triumph over Fiorentina at Old Trafford on Saturday. Manchester United showed why they need Benjamin Sesko as Rasmus Hojlund's reaction spoke volumes Manchester United FC Man United ended their pre-season schedule with another trophy after a penalty shootout win against Fiorentina. Ruben Amorim warns Manchester United need to improve - 'We are going to struggle' Manchester United FC Man United drew 1-1 with Fiorentina in their final pre-season friendly of the summer and Ruben Amorim reflected on the display. Carlos Baleba transfer value made clear after Manchester United receive 'green light' Manchester United Transfer News The latest Man Utd transfer news and rumours as they continue to be linked with a move for Carlos Baleba. Manchester United FCErik ten Hag gives blunt Manchester United response after return to EnglandThe former Man Utd manager was asked about his old club on Friday evening when returning for a pre-season friendly with Bayer Leverkusen. David de Gea speaks out on Manchester United exit David De Gea David de Gea returned to Man United for the first time with Fiorentina after his insensitive departure in July 2023. Palermo vs Man City LIVE early team news plus how to watch and kick off time for pre-season friendly Manchester City FC Manchester City are in Italy for a pre-season friendly against Palermo today. Ruben Amorim praises Manchester United player after Fiorentina draw - 'It's unbelievable' Manchester United FC Mason Mount started as a false nine in Man United's pre-season friendly against Fiorentina on Saturday. England Lioness star Ella Toone announces engagement after romantic clifftop proposal Ella Toone The England star, 25, was one of the Lionesses' standout players at the Euros 2025 Most Read Most Recent Player ratingsManchester United player ratings vs Fiorentina as Bryan Mbeumo and Bruno Fernandes good Man United drew with Fiorentina before winning a penalty shootout in their final pre-season friendly and here are how the players rated at Old Trafford. Manchester United vs Fiorentina highlights and reaction as Reds win shootout after 1-1 draw Manchester United fixtures Man United brought their pre-season schedule to a close with a penalty shootout triumph over Fiorentina at Old Trafford on Saturday. Buckingham Palace announces King will address the nation next week Royal Family A pre-recorded message will be broadcast to the nation next week 'I sold my face to AI for £1,500' Artificial intelligence Lucy was scouted to become an AI model through Instagram. Now, her face could be used to advertise anything Woman who 'looks like Sabrina Carpenter' is mobbed on night out by people who demand selfies and buy her drinks Real Life Olivia Fano says she is regularly stopped for selfies by stunned strangers while on nights out in Manchester National LotteryNational Lottery Lotto results LIVE: Numbers for £7.3m draw on Saturday, August 9Results checker for tonight's triple rollover Erik ten Hag gives blunt Manchester United response after return to England Manchester United FC The former Man Utd manager was asked about his old club on Friday evening when returning for a pre-season friendly with Bayer Leverkusen. David de Gea speaks out on Manchester United exit David De Gea David de Gea returned to Man United for the first time with Fiorentina after his insensitive departure in July 2023. Our Yorkshire Farm's Amanda Owen emotional as she makes heartbreaking discovery Channel 4 On Saturday, Amanda Owen will be back on screens with a repeat episode of Our Farm Next Door. Where Northern Lights could dazzle in UK tonight as Met Office forecasts 'enhanced auroral activity' Northern Lights Lucky sky watchers could see the Northern Lights, the Sturgeon Moon and a dazzling meteor shower tonight Top Stories Trafford Centre customers told 'go home' as hundreds line up for luxury SNOOPY watch The Trafford Centre "It felt like a bit of an overreaction, everyone in the queue was just chatting politely" Live-event Palermo vs Man City LIVE build-up Manchester City FC Manchester City are in Italy for a pre-season friendly against Palermo today. United showed why they need Sesko as Hojlund's reaction spoke volumes Manchester United FC Man United ended their pre-season schedule with another trophy after a penalty shootout win against Fiorentina. Social media rumours shut down by police after two men injured in town centre attack Wigan A man has been arrested Live-event LIVE updates as M60 drivers face delays amid 'fire' M60 Traffic is building on the stretch Liam Gallagher's furious on-stage tirade at council after dig at Oasis fans Oasis The Oasis frontman called council members "f*****g s***s" after they made comments about fans 'They've got to keep the magic of this place, there's nothing else like it' Bury A £33M project is creating a new flexi-hall and improving the the market which defines a 'town centre’s cultural identity' Gang ambushed man in own home as he watched TV, but left behind vital clue Courts One of the attackers, Flynn Wilson, has now been jailed Probation officer who seemed like perfect candidate had huge secret exposed Crime Leonie Wilkinson's lies unravelled after a telling item was found in a search 'Rock stars went in but the feel of the place was that it was a home for everyone' Greater Manchester News The bolthole for the stars is the Apsley Cottage pub behind the Apollo Theatre in Ardwick. Its walls are covered with pictures of the bands who have gone there after performing at the venue. 'It was a light brighter than the sun. Birds fell from the sky and everything shook' World War Two Geoff Sterring, from Stockport, was a captive in a Japanese POW camp when he witnessed the nuclear bomb dropped on Nagasaki in 1945 England Lioness star Ella Toone announces engagement after romantic clifftop proposal Ella Toone The England star, 25, was one of the Lionesses' standout players at the Euros 2025