Trump Removes Billy Long As IRS Commissioner Less Than 2 Months After Confirmation
Trump Removes Billy Long As IRS Commissioner Less Than 2 Months After Confirmation A White House official told the Associated Press that Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent will serve as acting commissioner. FATIMA HUSSEIN Aug 8, 2025, 03:45 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump has removed former U.S. Rep. Billy Long as IRS commissioner less than two months after his confirmation, a White House official said Friday. It was not immediately clear why Long was dismissed. His quick exit makes him the shortest-tenured IRS commissioner confirmed by the Senate since the position was created in 1862. Advertisement Long said in a social media post that Trump had nominated him for an ambassadorship. “It is a honor to serve my friend President Trump and I am excited to take on my new role as the ambassador to Iceland. I am thrilled to answer his call to service and deeply committed to advancing his bold agenda. Exciting times ahead!” the former Missouri congressman wrote on X. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent will serve as acting IRS commissioner, according to the White House official, who was not authorized to speak publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Long’s ouster only compounds the turmoil at the nation’s tax collector, which has been beset by turnover since the beginning of Trump’s second term. The IRS shuffled through four acting leaders before Long was confirmed in June and has lost a quarter of its staff since the Department of Government Efficiency burrowed in in a self-stated mission to reduce waste, fraud and abuse. Advertisement In a message to IRS employees after he was confirmed, Long talked about his plans for his first few months in office, a milestone he did not reach. “In my first 90 days I plan to ask you, my employee partners, to help me develop a new culture here,” Long wrote. “I’m big on culture, and I’m anxious to develop one that makes your lives and the taxpayers’ lives better.” In many ways, he was an unusual pick for the role. While in Congress, where he served from 2011 to 2023, Long sponsored legislation to get rid of the IRS. A former auctioneer, Long had no background in tax administration. Advertisement The Senate confirmed Long on a 53-44 vote despite Democrats’ concerns about the Republican’s past work for a firm that pitched a fraud-ridden coronavirus pandemic-era tax break and about campaign contributions he received after Trump nominated him. After leaving Congress to mount an unsuccessful 2022 bid for the U.S. Senate, Long worked with a firm that distributed the pandemic-era employee retention tax credit. That tax credit program was eventually shut down after then-IRS Commissioner Daniel Werfel determined that it was fraudulent. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Democrats called for a criminal investigation into Long’s connections to other alleged tax credit loopholes. The lawmakers allege that firms connected to Long duped investors into spending millions of dollars to purchase fake tax credits. Advertisement The acting Ieaders who preceded Long in the role included one who resigned over a deal between the IRS and the Department of Homeland Security to share immigrants’ tax data with Immigration and Customs Enforcement and another whose appointment led to a fight between former Trump adviser Elon Musk and Bessent. Long’s departure comes after the agency underwent a series of DOGE-related job cuts this year. The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration reports that the agency has been cut down from 103,000 workers in January to 77,000 workers in May 2025. Most of the reductions came from DOGE’s deferred resignation program. The workforce reductions were part of the Trump administration’s efforts to shrink the size of the federal bureaucracy. Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post