My Parents Opened a Credit Card in My Name. They Won’t Let Me Close It.
Pay Dirt My Parents Opened a Credit Card in My Name. They Won’t Let Me Close It. Advice by Kristin Wong Aug 06, 20254:06 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Pay Dirt is Slate’s money advice column. Have a question? Send it to Kristin and Ilyce here. (It’s anonymous!) Dear Pay Dirt, When I turned 18 (25 years ago), my parents had me open a credit card in my name so I could start building credit. I never used it though—they did (responsibly, this isn’t going in that direction). The card is still open with a balance of over $4,000—they make the minimum payments to pay it off. I got another credit card for just myself about 10 years ago. I have a very good/excellent credit score. I recently received a settlement from an accident. I want to pay off the balance of that very first card and close it. When I told my parents this, they said not to close it: Because it’s the line of credit I’ve had for the longest time, it will hurt my credit score to close it. That makes zero sense to me, because once I pay it off, I have no intention of ever using it again, so I’d like it out of sight, out of mind, don’t want to worry about anyone hacking it and using it, etc. But, I know credit scores work in weird (frankly, seemingly pretty darn arbitrary) ways. I own my car outright. I was able to purchase my house outright thanks to a relative loaning me the money, but in the next year or so, I will have to take out a mortgage to pay them back. What say you on whether I should close out the card? —Who Makes Up These Rules? Dear Who Makes Up These Rules, There’s a lot to unpack here! Let’s start with how the credit scoring system works. Grab a cup of coffee and try to stay with me here. The thing about credit scores is they don’t always reward you for making good financial moves. I’ve written before about how wonky the credit scoring system is—and how there are actually many different credit scores, not just one. But the bottom line is, your parents are right. There’s a good chance that closing that 25-year-old credit card could lower your score. When most people talk about credit, they’re referring to your FICO score, which something like 90% of lenders use. FICO scores are calculated based on five factors: payment history (35%), amounts owed (30%), length of credit history (15%), new credit (10%) and credit mix (10%). Here’s what each factor means: Payment History (35%): Whether you consistently pay bills on time across all your accounts—credit cards, loans, utilities, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Amounts Owed/Credit Utilization (30%): How much of your available credit you’re using. Lower utilization is better for your score. Ideally, you’d keep it under 30%, but under 10% would be *chef’s kiss* Length of Credit History (15%): This is how long you’ve had your credit accounts open. This includes the age of your oldest account, newest account, and average age of all accounts. Credit Mix (10%): Having different types of credit accounts (credit cards, auto loans, mortgages, etc.) shows you can manage various forms of credit. New Credit (10%): Recent applications for credit. Too many hard inquiries in a short amount of time can temporarily lower your score. Instead of closing that old card, it would be better to pay off the balance and simply stop using it. This approach would lower your credit utilization and still preserve your length of credit history—both of which are good things when it comes to your score. Advertisement To be clear, I’m not saying your score will drop if you pay off the card—you should absolutely pay it off! Some people think that carrying a balance is good for your score, but that’s a myth. Paying off debt reduces your credit utilization, which usually improves your score. I’m saying that your score will likely drop if you close the old card, because that reduces your available credit (increasing utilization) and shortens your average account age, which could also potentially lower your score. Advertisement But even if you do decide to close the card, yes, your score might drop, but it’s relatively easy to bounce back if you focus on the other factors—basically, keep your utilization low and avoid opening too many new lines of credit at once. Rebuilding your score does take time, though, so if you’re planning to apply for a mortgage in the near future, I’d consider keeping that old card open and unused instead of closing it. Advertisement Advertisement Also, make sure your parents stop using it, too. Despite their best intentions, if they’re not paying it off in full every month, they’ve been increasing your credit utilization this whole time, which might not be the best thing for your score. There is one important exception to this advice: If you’re tempted to use the card and might rack up debt, just close it. And a lower credit score, which is temporary and totally fixable, is far better than accumulating high-interest debt that could take years to pay off and cost you thousands of dollars. If you struggle with spending discipline, the card represents a temptation to overspend, or you’re worried your parents might keep using it and racking up interest (which is costly!), closing it is the financially responsible choice. You can rebuild your credit score, but debt can be much harder to escape. To put it simply, good financial habits are more important than a good credit score. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement I do want to address one more thing, though: Have your parents been racking up credit card interest in your name this whole time? It sounds like they’ve been responsible with payments, but even with responsible use, minimum payments on credit cards mean interest has been accumulating month after month. That interest compounds, and over time could have added hundreds or even thousands of dollars to what you are now ultimately paying. Also, since the card is in your name, you’re legally liable for every charge and every penny of interest. I would look over your statements to understand exactly how much interest has accumulated over the years. I’m sure they mean well, and this isn’t about blame. But you do want to understand the true cost of this arrangement. Advertisement Get advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Pay Dirt,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Pay Dirt following up) Submit Dear Pay Dirt, A little under six months ago, I lucked into a job that I really like that pays better than I feel I have a right to as someone fresh out of college with a degree in the humanities in this economy. All of my friends who graduated around the same time are having money troubles. Meanwhile I’m over here able to safely and easily save sometimes more than a third of my paycheck each month despite barely trying to budget (I also have no student loan debt). Advertisement Advertisement I don’t know how to handle this, because I’m being pulled in opposite directions by several opposing forces: Save as much as I can for a rainy day, donate most of that remaining paycheck because what right do I have to sit on what could easily be life-changing money for someone, and try to assist my friends with their financial problems. The problem with that last one is that I don’t know how to talk about my newfound financial stability without feeling like I’m bragging, when I actually feel really guilty about said unearned stability. I don’t know what I’m supposed to do. I’ve been letting the squirrel instincts win for now because that feels most “responsible.” I should clarify that I am making less than $55,000 per year. It’s really not a lot, I’m just stupid lucky and frugal. —Financially Lucky Advertisement Dear Financially Lucky, It’s admirable that you want to help others with your good fortune, and I wouldn’t want to discourage you from doing so. Sure, there’s a case to be made for putting on your own financial “oxygen mask” before helping others with theirs—in other words, making sure you’re financially set before you start donating your funds—but I think there’s a way to do both. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement That said, to the oxygen mask point, I would make sure you first have a healthy emergency fund saved. Your financial luck could change at any moment—a job loss, a health issue, car troubles—so having some funds on hand just in case any of that happens is critical. Most financial experts recommend having anywhere between three and six months of your living expenses saved in an emergency fund. If you’re already able to save a third of your paycheck, it shouldn’t take you long to get there. It sounds like you’re already on the right track. Advertisement You should be saving for retirement, too. Aim for around 10-15 percent of your salary, and if your job offers an employer match, that makes it even easier. If not, you’ll want to open an Individual Retirement Account and start saving there. The earlier you start saving for retirement, the harder your money is going to work for you down the road. Your future self will thank you. Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Once you’ve got all that squared away, it’s just a matter of setting spending goals for your budget. Figure out a percentage of your paycheck you feel comfortable donating to causes that are important to you. If you’re looking for a ballpark, 10 percent is a good rule of thumb. As for helping your friends with their financial problems, that might be more of a case-by-case question. You might decide to float a friend a couple hundred bucks to pay their light bill or treat another friend to dinner. It sounds like you’re in a good place to add this into your budget, so again, figure out what percentage works for you. You might consider this part of your monthly donation budget, for example, and set aside some money each month to help out a friend when they need it. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement As for the problem of feeling like you’re bragging, there’s one way to think about this. We live in a world where the tables can so easily turn. People find themselves in precarious financial situations all the time. If you keep this in mind, odds are, you won’t come across as braggy. Making more money than your friends doesn’t somehow make you more valuable than them, it just means you have more money, which, for now at least, makes your life easier. It sounds like you know all this. So when you do decide to help out a friend, I’m sure you’ll let them know you’re doing it not to flaunt what you have, but to use money as a tool that can help make their life a little easier, too. —Kristin More Money Advice From Slate We need help figuring out how to equitably manage inheritances in a blended family. My two youngest children (former stepchildren, now adopted by me!) recently came into a very significant amount of money in the form of an inheritance from their maternal grandparents. Unfortunately, it’s not in a trust. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Personal Finance Real Estate Advertisement