This AI 'Resurrection' Of A Parkland Victim Is Sparking Serious Ethical Questions
This AI 'Resurrection' Of A Parkland Victim Is Sparking Serious Ethical Questions Mental health professionals share the problems with this kind of digital "resurrection." By Caroline Bologna Senior Reporter, HuffPost Life Aug 8, 2025, 03:25 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT When former CNN host Jim Acosta recently sat down for a “one of a kind” interview with Joaquin Oliver, he wasn’t speaking to the teenager himself. Indeed, Oliver was one of 17 people killed in the 2018 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Instead, the “guest” was an artificial intelligence recreation of the shooting victim, complete with his likeness and voice. The simulation, created by Oliver’s parents Manuel and Patricia, appeared in the video interview with Acosta to speak on the issue that has become their mission since his death: addressing the epidemic of gun violence in America. A show you don’t want to miss at 4p ET / 1p PT. I’ll be having a one of a kind interview with Joaquin Oliver. He died in the Parkland school shooting in 2018. But his parents have created an AI version of their son to deliver a powerful message on gun violence. Plus Texas State… pic.twitter.com/mbdM2WxwUR — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 4, 2025 Advertisement For many viewers, this sort of digital “resurrection” felt unsettling and deeply problematic from an ethical perspective. But it also offered a glimpse at the ways emerging technology is intersecting with the highly personal experience of grief. As Joaquin’s father shared when he spoke with Acosta, the experience of interacting with an AI simulation of their son has been very emotional, as he and his wife cherish hearing his voice again. Mental health professionals say, however, that while this technology can be meaningful, it also brings complex psychological risks that shouldn’t be ignored. AI in grief presents a complicated blend of comfort and risk. “My first reaction is a mix of compassion for the grieving parents’ desire to hear their son’s voice again, and deep concern about the psychological implications,” licensed clinical social worker Janet Bayramyan told HuffPost. “For those experiencing traumatic loss, interacting with an AI-generated simulation of their loved one may temporarily soothe grief but can also complicate the mourning process.” Advertisement She warned that this approach risks creating a dependency on something that is “not truly the person” who passed away, thus potentially delaying acceptance and emotional integration of the loss. “This calls to mind the ‘Black Mirror’ episode ‘Be Right Back,’ where a grieving woman uses AI to recreate her deceased partner from his online footprint,” said clinical and forensic neuropsychologist Judy Ho. “That story powerfully depicted how technological surrogates can soothe and destabilize grief, especially when the line between real and synthetic begins to blur.” As real-life AI technology continues to improve, its use in the context of grief will only become more emotionally charged and ethically complex. Meanwhile, mass shootings continue to make headlines and devastate families. Advertisement “Words cannot adequately describe the devastating, horrific tragedy of the Parkland school shooting of 2018,” said mental health counselor Natalie Grierson. “It is worth noting that, unless you have lost a child, it is difficult to fully comprehend the deep-seated, perpetual pain that parents endure from a nightmare such as losing a child in a calamity, such as gun violence.” She emphasized that it’s entirely understandable for victims’ loved ones to grasp at any reminder of the person they lost or potential for connection, including artificial intelligence. This technology offers a break from the painful reality of sadness in their absence. “Denial is a common and often early stage of loss, where the bereaved individual cannot fully accept the reality of losing their loved one,” Grierson said. “Initially, denial is usually considered normal and adaptive, as we may not be ready to fully accept what has happened ― the mind tries to protect us from that pain.” Advertisement But it’s also essential to eventually exit the stage of denial to fully experience and process the emotions of grief and reach acceptance ― as hard as that can be. “There’s also the possibility of triggering renewed trauma responses ― especially when the loss was violent and sudden,” Bayramyan said. “It feels as though this is a band-aid to a bigger issue related to lack of acceptance of the loss. And if this AI tool ceases to exist, then the mourning process will have to happen anyway, and perhaps it would be even harder to grieve at that point.” AI might offer a healing sense of ritual ― but within reason. “Ritual is a huge component of the grief process,” said psychologist Cynthia Shaw. “Considering religion, spirituality, belief systems and culture, how do communities process loss? There are countless ways of honoring and remembering those we have lost and often ritual practices are a large component, whether that’s a funeral service, burial, prayer, etc.” Advertisement She posed the question of whether the creation of an AI-generated simulation could be a modern ritual, similar to cremated remains or replaying old voicemails. “It’s certainly a question worth exploring with open-mindedness to a person’s grieving processes ― viewing such experience from a lens of learning and understanding and nonjudgment and recognizing the grief takes many forms,” Shaw said. Ho pointed to the concept of “continuing bonds” in grief therapy. “The idea that maintaining a symbolic connection to a deceased loved one can be adaptive is well supported,” she said. “Many people write letters to the deceased, speak to them in prayer or thought or keep voice messages to feel connected. If we are thinking about this as an extension of continuing bonds, it is not far-fetched to imagine that an AI simulation could feel comforting to someone privately.” Advertisement While she acknowledged that hearing a loved one’s voice or engaging in symbolic rituals can offer comfort in some contexts, Bayramyan stressed that interacting with AI is different from looking through old photos or listening to saved voicemails to feel connected from time to time. “AI could, in theory, be another tool for remembrance if used intentionally and with psychological support,” Bayramyan said. “However, unlike true memories in photos or saved videos, AI simulations are interactive and unpredictable and they do not necessarily represent who the individual truly was, which makes them emotionally more complicated. They can blur the boundary between past and present, reality and simulation, and potentially re-open wounds rather than facilitate healing ― especially without professional guidance.” That’s why there should be intentional limits on AI as a grief ritual. It’s important to remember that AI is just one tool. Mindfulness is also important when using AI as part of what many consider to be an additional sixth stage of grief: finding meaning. Advertisement “In the case of the parents of Joaquin Oliver, using AI fuels their mission to end gun violence, driving their sense of meaning and purpose from their tragic loss,” Grierson said. “Finding meaning following loss can be a healthy sign of processing grief, as the individual has accepted the loss and begun to think about how they might use their painful experiences to help others.” She noted that the meaning-making stage of grief tends to be a constructive and positive outcome. “For many, it can feel cathartic and therapeutic to use one’s pain as a platform to help others by spreading awareness, advocating for changes and sharing one’s story,” Grierson said. “AI is likely to become a tool to achieve these healthy grief goals.” You can also ask AI to explain the stages of grief and recommend resources in your community. “AI is easily accessible and can provide a bit of personalized support, so I think if it’s used initially in the grief process, it can have some benefit,” said Holly Humphreys, a counselor and grief specialist with Thriveworks. “There’s a nonjudgmental nature with machines in general, so it could help a person step into the process of getting therapy. But I think it’s important to be used in conjunction with working toward seeking professional help.” Advertisement That’s because AI fundamentally cannot replace other important components of the grieving process. Noting that there’s no right way to grieve and that the stages of grief are personal and non-linear, Grierson pointed to the value of healthy coping mechanisms and support systems ― from books about loss to local events to counseling and grief support groups. “Human connection is tremendously important in processing grief, whether that be connecting with other people who can relate or attending therapy,” Grierson said. “Given the importance of community and interpersonal healing in grief, AI should be used cautiously.” There are broader societal implications as well. On a societal level, Bayramyan noted that recreating victims through AI could, on one hand, raise awareness of the human toll of mass shootings ― but it could also normalize or sensationalize trauma. Advertisement “The public continues to get desensitized,” she said, adding that blurring the line between real and synthetic people risks emotional numbing. “In grief work, authenticity matters — and synthetic representations, however advanced, are not a substitute for genuine human connection. Human connection requires eye contact, touch, and further reciprocal processes.” She added that exposure to these kinds of AI simulations could be particularly destabilizing for news viewers with their own histories of loss or trauma. “What also stands out in the interview is the larger messaging: how the AI generation of Joaquin speaks on gun control,” Shaw said. “Given the heightened emotional reaction to this case, the weight of such messages may have a greater impact on listeners and viewers. It stands out. So, from a messaging perspective, the AI generation can have significant value.” Advertisement However, she and other therapists who spoke to HuffPost expressed concerns about the psychological risk of an AI simulation, which can disorient people. “The U.S. has experienced a staggering number of mass shootings, and there is a lot of collective trauma around these events,” Ho said. “For some, seeing an AI representation of a lost teen may feel exploitative or emotionally dysregulating. The concern is not only personal for the family, but also more widely applied to how such representations might impact survivors, families of other victims and viewers navigating their own grief. Seeing a reanimated likeness of someone who died in a public tragedy could trigger unresolved trauma or intensify distress for those still healing.” There are also ethical questions around consent and autonomy with presentations of someone who died in a mass shooting to the public in a journalistic or entertainment context. Advertisement “Research on deepfakes suggests that repeated exposure to artificially constructed likenesses can lead to emotional confusion and distrust,” Ho said. “We also risk normalizing the idea that deceased individuals can ― or should ― continue to participate in public discourse, without their consent or control over their own narrative.” Exploitation is also a risk, particularly with instances of AI simulations created by those who are not the deceased person’s family. There’s potential for misuse in non-memorial contexts like advertising or commercial projects. “Almost like taking a picture of a person without their knowledge, it’s invasive,” Shaw said. “Especially when it comes to grief, privacy is important.” Advertisement The reality is that AI is here and seemingly only increasing its presence in our lives. “As a society, we have fully jumped straight into the deep end with technology, but I think now there’s a little bit more of a backpedaling process, with schools implementing cell phone use rules and things like that,” Humphreys said. “Technology is great to a certain point, but it needs to be in moderation, with some limitations so that we’re not distancing and isolating ourselves from human contact to become completely dependent on it.” Grief is an inevitable part of life, as loss is baked into the reality of human existence. Thus, it’s necessary to find the right balance between AI and the grieving process. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “Technology will inevitably play a bigger role in how we memorialize and connect with those we’ve lost,” Bayramyan said. “The key will be creating ethical guidelines and involving mental health professionals in its use, especially for traumatic losses.” Advertisement Related artificial intelligence therapy parkland school shooting 'What The F**k': Jim Acosta Slammed Over 'One-Of-A-Kind Interview' With Dead Parkland Victim Would You Ever Trust AI To Save Your Relationship? This 1 Surprising Profession Topped Microsoft's Ranked List Of Jobs Most Exposed To AI Right Now Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Good Life A completely essential daily guide to achieving the good life. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close MORE IN Wellness MORE IN LIFE NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Wellness. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post