My Wife Is on a Sex Sabbatical. I Have a Big Surprise Planned for Her Return.
How to Do It My Wife Is on a Sex Sabbatical. I Have a Big Surprise Planned for Her Return. Let the training begin. Advice by Jessica Stoya Aug 06, 20251:32 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by puhhha/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment How to Do It is Slate’s sex advice column. Have a question? Send it to Jessica and Rich here. It’s anonymous! Dear How to Do It, My wife is currently unable to have sex. During her sexual sabbatical, I want to work on something to really wow my wife when she’s back. I want to improve my sexual stamina so that when she returns, I can last longer in bed. I have purchased a Fleshlight to simulate vaginal penetration, but I wanted to get sex industry insight as to how porn stars are able to prolong their sexual experiences. Are there certain physical exercises they utilize or training regimens to increase sexual stamina? While engaging in sex, are there mental exercises or tools they use to prevent overstimulation/excitation? Or is it mostly an illusion aided by cutscenes, position changes, etc.? Any thoughts would be helpful. —Training to Last Dear Training to Last, Male performers in pornography don’t give up their secrets often. The secrets that have been shared with me indicate that each performer uses somewhat different approaches, and that these approaches are simply highly sophisticated versions of the general advice given to men who experience premature ejaculation. You’re headed in the right direction with your thinking of pornography as an entertainment medium. It isn’t so much that position changes allow for an illusion of lasting longer, though, as it is that interrupting the kind of repetition of stimulation that feels so good it might cause an orgasm interrupts that orgasm. Position changes allow for actually lasting longer. Slowing down before the point of orgasm also tends to cause that interruption. Taking a break to provide oral stimulation or focus on other parts of your wife’s body will serve that purpose, too. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement In the interest of full disclosure, yes, use of cutscenes or other creative editing practices can absolutely save a scene that went short or was awkward for any reason, but usually filming runs pretty smoothly with professionals, and if anything, the difficulty occurs when it’s time to ejaculate in a visible and aesthetically pleasing manner. You might watch a few full sex scenes (as opposed to the more common practice of scanning for the couple of minutes that really push your buttons) from couples-oriented or narrative-driven studios with an eye toward what male performers do when they need a break from stimulation of their penis for ideas about how to keep the energy going. Related From Slate Jessica Stoya I Married My Husband Thinking We Could Fix His Sex Troubles. I Didn’t Expect It to Be This … Challenging. Read More Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. You do have to keep in mind that performers in adult videos are also prioritizing what looks good over what feels good, and achieving the length of time needed for a scene over having the most erotic experience possible. Yes, generally the secondary goal is to experience (and therefore authentically display) pleasure. But it’s a very different main objective than what most people consider when having sex with their partner at home. Advertisement If you can get a second erection fairly soon after ejaculating, you might have a quickie with yourself first or come quickly and focus on activities that don’t require an erection during your refractory period. You can experiment with distracting yourself from what your penis is feeling, whether that’s literally baseball or some aspect of the sex you’re experiencing that won’t send you over the edge. And, with your Fleshlight (Disclosure: I’ve had a licensing deal with them for over a decade), you can practice finding the point of no return and then retreating from it so you’re more proficient when you and your wife can return to having sex with each other. (If you’re really stuck on getting info from a pro, my former colleague Erik Everhard has a whole coaching program called The Everhard Academy.) —Jessica More Advice From Slate I’m 25 now. I’ve been told I’m charming, handsome, in shape, and successful. I’m also perpetually single. All my past relationships have started out excellent, only to fall apart six months to a year in. I’ve asked what the problem is every time, and I always got the BS “It’s not you, it’s me. “We’re just not compatible” kind of answers. Until an ex who I had a falling out with finally told me what the real problem was… Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Sex Slate Plus Advertisement