I’ve Always Secretly Longed for a “Taboo” Dynamic in Bed. It Might Scare Away My New Man.
How to Do It I’ve Always Secretly Longed for a “Taboo” Dynamic in Bed. It Might Scare Away My New Man. Advice by Jessica Stoya Aug 06, 202512:43 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by fizkes/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment How to Do It is Slate’s sex advice column. Have a question? Send it to Jessica and Rich here. It’s anonymous! Dear How to Do It, I am usually painfully shy about initiating conversations regarding kinks with my partners, but I’ve been seeing someone new for six months now. I’ve always secretly longed for the gentle and erotic sort of power play that comes with the whole “Daddy Dom/good girl” dynamic (not age play, and not incest play). I’m struggling to work up the nerve to indicate to him that I like this sort of thing, as I’m very scared of being rejected. Do you have any insight into the percentage of men who like this sort of kink? And do you have any advice about how I might hint at or steer him toward that dynamic? —Daddy’s Girl Dear Daddy’s Girl, Unfortunately, there’s no available data on the percentage of men who want to engage in a Daddy Dom dynamic minus the two main features of the practice. It’s not that it’s so difficult to find men who are happy to fulfill what I think you’re asking for, as it is that tube site user data and academic studies don’t currently have that level of granularity. People with limited experience with the kink community often imagine some pretty extreme caricatures when they hear phrases like “BDSM,” “Daddy Dom/good girl,” and “fisting.” It’s fairly inevitable, given that the most easily discovered depictions are pretty extreme. And most people who are interested in sex beyond traditional norms tend toward some degree of creativity. So, in or out of the community, you’re going to be navigating what people tend to imagine when they hear certain terms. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement I usually advise people to go ahead and use the “official” label and then unpack from there. But I think you’re best off coming from the other direction. When people hear “Daddy Dom” in conjunction with a female partner, they’re almost certainly going to think age and incest play. What you want is a gentle dynamic. I’m guessing here, but I imagine you also want a sort of caring energy, a lot of positive reinforcement and praise, and clear directions from your partner. Typing this out, it seems as though I’m either seriously missing something in your letter or you’re framing a fairly typical feature of vanilla heterosex as a kink. Regardless, get a sense of the specifics of what you do want, and ask for those. If your partner comes back with “So, a DD/gg but minus ageplay and incest themes?” fantastic—you communicate in similar ways and think about sex similarly. But if they simply say OK and follow through sufficiently, I wouldn’t stress about the framework of labels too much. Advertisement Get sex advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear How to Do It,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to How to Do It following up) Submit Dear How to Do It, I absorbed from a fairly early age that love and affection were linked to how much you could give to others, even if that giving didn’t make you happy (thanks, Mom!). I’ve had a lot of therapy to address that people-pleasing, and it’s worked well, until I get to the bedroom. Advertisement Sex for me is rarely “fun” because I have to ensure my partners are comfortable, pleasured, orgasmic, and content. Before you think I’m an egomaniac, I want to stress that it’s not fun or enjoyable; I just can’t lie there and permit myself to be pleasured, because it feels selfish. But I’ll run around the bedroom like a caffeinated tour guide to anticipate someone else’s needs. Orgasming is something I can handle later, no big deal if I don’t finish, right? Advertisement Well, I found someone I love and adore, and I have a shot at a long-term relationship. Or at least I thought I did, until my partner told me that my “put them first” stance makes sex less fun, and that I needed to “let go more.” I want this to work, but it feels like unless I’m intoxicated, I can’t clear my control freak brain. How do I let go more? —Let It Go, Elsa! Advertisement Dear Let It Go, It’s worth getting more information from your partner about what they mean by “let go more.” We all have a tendency to infer the meanings of words or phrases, which can trip us up when we’re trying to understand something as subjective as sexuality. You don’t have to understand every single detail of their thoughts in one massive conversation, but you will want a sense of what exactly they’re missing and where their request is coming from. Advertisement Advertisement If there’s a therapist you worked well with in the process of untangling your people-pleasing tendencies, you can absolutely reach out to them to ask whether they’re comfortable exploring sexuality. And this is something most sex therapists and many sex coaches will have experience in working through. Barring help from the professionals, I’d try to understand what you do enjoy about the role you currently take in the bedroom, and why sharing your pleasure with your partner feels so selfish. Think back on messages you’ve received about sex and, yes, about treating your own enjoyment of general activities as equally important to the enjoyment of others. If you and your partner are up for it, you can slowly try experimenting with experiencing a little bit of pleasure for a short time—whatever feels like a manageable amount of stretching outside your comfort zone—and you can then examine what you felt and what your reactions were during that experience. Advertisement Advertisement I’m also very curious what your orgasms outside of partnered sex are like, and what’s different about your emotional response when you’re alone. Does that also feel selfish? How much of masturbation is pleasure-oriented, and how much is focused on achieving orgasm and moving on? Whatever route you take, try to be gentle with yourself. Send Us Your Questions About the Workplace! The columnists behind our advice column, Good Job, want to help you navigate your social dynamics at work. Does your colleague constantly bug you after hours? Has an ill-advised work romance gone awry? Ask us your question here! Dear How to Do it, I’m a straight guy in my late 40s, and my wife is the same age. We’ve been married for over 20 years. Due to repeated childhood/teenage abuse and trauma, I’ve always been attracted to, but also terrified of, women and sex in general. I never got to explore sexuality in my younger days due to overwhelming fear and lack of confidence. My wife is the only person I’ve had any sexual experiences with. Advertisement About seven to eight years ago, she went through early menopause, and has a medical condition that leaves her exhausted all the time. She can sometimes pass out in extreme circumstances. Our sex life has taken a huge hit, and it seems she’s lost all interest. We’ve been having sex about four to eight times a year for nearly the last decade. Whenever I ask if she’s in the mood, I’m turned down. She refuses to give me blowjobs or handjobs (though she did in years past). She says she enjoys it when we’re intimate, but her facial expressions and body language in the moment clearly say otherwise. She usually just lies there until it’s over. This, along with the repeated rejection over the years, has been causing me to go into a deep depression. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement We’ve had multiple discussions with each other and our therapists about it. I lost weight in an attempt to be more attractive to her. She’s consulted with her doctors. I’ve repeatedly done as she’s asked (spending more time together, being extra supportive, cuddling, etc.). We’ve tried various lubricants and stimulating toys to aid in her comfort, yet nothing changes. Advertisement I love her, my libido is still alive, and I’m still attracted to her. But I have no confidence left that she desires me or that I’m capable of pleasing her (or any woman, for that matter). I’ve recently stopped initiating altogether to avoid rejection. Masturbating now just makes me feel ashamed and pathetic, as it’s the only sexual activity I’ve had and am going to have. I feel like I’ve tried everything. What should I do? —Giving Up Dear Giving Up, What you’ve written here very much seems like your wife has no libido, you’ve built part of your self-worth on whether your wife is interested in sex with you, and the two of you are experiencing at least one communication issue. You might be misunderstanding how intensely and often your wife needs the things she’s asked you to do, and your wife might be reluctant to be fully honest for fear of causing you further distress. There could be other possibilities as well. Ultimately, what you’re describing has a lot of factors, and the phrase “deep depression” indicates that it’s quite serious. Advertisement If the two of you already have a couples therapist, and started seeing them for other reasons, those reasons may not have been resolved and healed from well enough to take that pressure off of your relationship. If you’ve been seeing a couples therapist for this issue for a while with no progress, flag that in the session and ask for a different approach, or seek out a new professional. If you two haven’t seen one together, now would be a great time to bring one in. Advertisement Related From Slate Rich Juzwiak I Majorly Betrayed My Wife While We Were Dating. Years Later, the Truth Has Come Out. Read More Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Other than expert help in untangling the communication situation, there doesn’t seem to be anything else you can do to affect your wife’s libido. Given everything she’s dealing with, including the way that menopause often has significant effects on desire for sex and the fact that consulting doctors has been fruitless, there’s probably nothing she can do either. What you can work on, in this situation, is your own response to the current state of things. Advertisement Rejection hurts, full stop. For many decades, our mainstream culture has told men that sexual prowess and access are part of what is required for full manhood. As common as the reaction you’re having is, though, it’s your responsibility to sort through it. Working through what you can do to bear the hurt of rejection, how to pull out of depression, and how you can break through the self-disparaging idea of masturbation as pathetic are places to start. Ask your therapist for help. If they aren’t comfortable talking about sexuality in detail, find someone who specializes in sex therapy or counseling. (The American Association of Sexuality Counselors, Educators, and Therapists has a directory, as does Psychology Today.) —Jessica Advertisement Advertisement More Advice From Slate My husband and I are both in our late 40s with two kids (12 and 9). We enjoy sex 1-to-2 times per week. We consider sex an important part of our relationship, and it’s usually even more fun and frequent when we’re on holiday. Later in the year, my husband wants to take extended leave of 4-to-6 weeks, hire a campervan, and travel around as a family. It’s not my #1 idea for a holiday, but I know he often goes along with what I want for holidays, he works hard to support us, and he’ll be turning 50. It’s his turn. I like camping, so I’m trying hard to get onboard with the idea. A big barrier for me to overcome is how we would have sex in a campervan when the kids are so close by… Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Sex Advertisement