I Visited an Old Friend. I Was Shocked by Her Family Dynamic.
Care and Feeding My Friend’s Husband Is Incredibly Mean to Her. That’s Not the Worst of It. Advice by Ben Mathis-Lilley Follow Ben Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Ben_Mathis_Lilley newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Ben Mathis-Lilley? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 06, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Care and Feeding is Slate’s parenting advice column. Have a question for Care and Feeding? Submit it here. Dear Care and Feeding, Last week I went to visit an old friend who lives two hours away and was shocked by her family dynamic. Her husband was incredibly mean to her. But that wasn’t the worst part. Both she and her husband are incredibly mean to the kids. Every comment dripped with disdain. The kids were chastised harshly and threateningly over totally normal kid behavior. It was extreme enough that my kindergartener noticed and said, “You should stop being harsh with them!” (They didn’t hear him.) Their behavior was authoritarian, cruel, and belittling. They have amazing, sweet children, and not a kind or loving word was given to them by their parents the entire visit. I didn’t know what to do. I managed to play with and have nice conversations with each kid and showered them with praise. Now I can’t stop thinking about how their parents treated them—which , to me, reaches the level of verbal abuse—and what I should do. I could reach out to my friend and tell her my thoughts in hopes that she’ll hear me? We’re not close, and I don’t value the friendship any longer, so I don’t have anything to lose. I want to help those kids, if I possibly can. What else can I do? —They Deserve Better Dear Deserve, Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Telling someone what we really think: It’s the moment everyone dreams of! It looks so satisfying when they do it on television! And really, starting a confrontation with someone who seems to have an unhappy, simmering domestic situation and a strong temper … giving that person an a singular outlet and target for their rage and anger … what could go wrong? I’m mostly kidding. If you think you can handle this—and are prepared for the repercussions, i.e. no longer being friends with this particular friend—maybe you can. I do wonder if there’s a slightly more diplomatic way to bring it up than making it a referendum on her specific behavior, like telling her that you think she has great kids and you hope she feels good about that, and that you sensed a little bit of a tense atmosphere with her husband and were wondering if everything was alright. It seems possible that cracking the ice that way might lead her to her own realizations and conclusions about how she’s been acting. Or, maybe she’ll say that you don’t understand her life and that it’s none of your business! Yeah, that’s probably what she’ll say. —Ben Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement More Parenting Advice From Slate My husband has had our beloved dog “Rex” since we started dating. Rex was a puppy then, and is now 6. His breed can often live as long as 14 years. He’s always been well-socialized and behaved with both people and other dogs. But after our daughter was born, things changed. She is only 3 months old, and he growls at her frequently. Rex seems especially upset when she has my husband’s attention. Multiple times he’s growled and tried to jump up on me and knock me over during breastfeeding when he was never a jumping dog before. Two times he’s nipped at her hands when she was lying on her blanket in the living room. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Family Kids Slate Plus Advertisement