Help! I Finally Left My Terrible Husband. How Our Kids Are Acting About It Might Send Me Over the Edge.
Dear Prudence Help! I Finally Left My Terrible Husband. I Expected My Sons to Behave Differently. They know what he’s like. Advice by Jenée Desmond-Harris Follow Jenée Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Jenee_DesmondHarris newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Jenée Desmond-Harris? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 06, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Inside Creative House/Getty Images Plus and Agdekon Media Visuals/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Dear Prudence is Slate’s advice column. Submit questions here. Dear Prudence, After many years of marriage to my kids’ father, who was an alcoholic and involved in many sexual relations outside the marriage, I finally left the marriage and have tried to maintain a firm boundary of not interacting with him. My relationships with my three sons are struggling because of this. In spite of their knowing of their father’s behavior, my sons continue having a relationship with him and his new family. I feel that I have gotten little support or compassion from my sons, even though I have shared that I find it hurtful. As a result, I have just kept my feelings to myself and tried to maintain a relationship with them as a good mother. I am thinking that perhaps I need to restrict my relationships with my sons because of how much this hurts. —Trying to Be the Good Mother Dear Trying to Be the Good Mother, Don’t pull back. Your sons maintaining a relationship with their father (who is, keep in mind, their father because you chose him) is not an attack on you. Children, including adult children, will often forgive their parents for a lot. It’s natural. You absolutely deserve to feel hurt and betrayed by your husband, but you should look elsewhere for compassion and healing. Therapy, friends, books, podcasts, support groups, those rooms where you pay an hourly fee to use a hammer to destroy a bunch of stuff—whatever feels right to you. I suspect that as your anger and sadness fade and as you start to be a little bit gentler on yourself, you might find that you soften toward your sons, too. You might begin to see them as men who were once little boys who were raised by a father who didn’t have what it took to do his part for the family. You might even see that they are probably in a lot of pain and still chasing that connection. I hope you can get there because you’ve already had to deal with something hard and unfair, and I don’t want you to lose three people you love, too. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Get advice from Prudie—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Prudence,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Dear Prudence following up) Submit Dear Prudence, I currently have a crush on someone, and I don’t know how to tell her (I am a man). She already kind of told me that she doesn’t like me, but she jokes around a lot and makes quips like that. On top of that, I am slightly autistic (Asperger’s) and I don’t perceive emotions as well as other people, so I don’t know if she actually meant it. She doesn’t have a lot of technology and only has an iPad with an email. We don’t live too far from each other, but I don’t really know how to contact her other than by email. But via email, these conversations become more like check-ins. What should I do? I know that she sees me as a friend, but I don’t know if she could ever see me as anything more. —Don’t Know How to Ask Advertisement Dear Don’t Know How to Ask, I wish I knew a little bit more about the context of her statement that she doesn’t like you. Was it, “I’m so happy we’re friends, and I don’t like you in any other way.” Or was it, “You don’t like raisins?? That’s crazy, I don’t like you!” I assume it was the former, and she said she doesn’t like you romantically, so let’s take that at face value and not push for more. Advertisement You should write down some notes on why you like this woman so much. I imagine the list could include things like her personality or sense of humor, her appearance, your shared interests, or the way she shows you that she cares about your life when you have your check-ins. Use that as a guide to envision the kind of person you might want to pursue and date. Think about this when you’re out and about and in social environments, but also consider using dating apps. While they have their challenges, you would benefit from the decreased ambiguity about what the people you meet from the apps are looking for. You won’t have to spend as much time analyzing whether you’re talking to a friend or a potential date, wondering if you’re missing emotional cues, and debating whether the interest is mutual. Advertisement Advertisement It sounds like you’re able to manage being friends with your crush without letting your feelings get in the way. As long as you’re not making any unwanted moves, expressing jealousy, or sulking over her lack of interest, you can keep the relationship going. And if she’s up for it, she has a new role: your dating advisor. Ask her if you can ask her questions like the one you just sent me (what does this mean? Should I say something? Is she interested?). Instead of being reminders of an unrequited crush, your check-ins could get you closer to finding someone who returns your feelings and makes that perfectly clear. Advertisement Advertisement Prudie Wants to Hear From You! Readers often have great suggestions for our letter writers, occasionally disagree with a point Prudie makes, or simply want to provide some additional advice. Each week, Prudie will be replying to some of these comments and suggestions from readers, which will be featured on the site on Fridays for Slate Plus members. Write to us! Advertisement Dear Prudence, Some friends have a toddler and keep bringing him to events that I and the other people in our social circle hold, despite being told that they are not kid-friendly (think wine tasting and book club meetings). What can be done to get them to respect our wishes? —Hire a Damn Sitter Dear Hire a Sitter, It seems that these friends are pretty desperate to be included in the friend group despite being new-ish parents. I’m not sure why they can’t just take turns attending events while one person stays home with the toddler, but it’s clear that for whatever reason, they really, really want to be around the rest of you. Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. That desire is understandable even though they are being incredibly rude. So there are a couple of ways to go about this. You can stop them from being rude again (which is a totally fair thing to do!) or you can address their underlying desire to be included and try to find ways to make that happen, by being good friends to them (and better friends than they’re being to you right now). Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement To stop them from bringing their kids around to an adults-only event again, say: “You guys brought Henry to karaoke night even though we told you it wasn’t kid-friendly. Please don’t do it again. I’m really not going to be able to let you in if you show up with him at the cannabis-themed dinner because I’m not comfortable having a child in that environment. Do you understand?” It’s not hard to lay down the law. Trying to figure out a way to be the village that they have insisted upon is a little harder. If there is any goodwill for these people and their kid left, you and the rest of the group could plan occasional kid-friendly activities, offer to visit them at their home, or chip in for a couple of hours of babysitting so the 3-year-old could be off in another room while the rest of you socialize. Advertisement Related From Slate A.J. Daulerio I Quit Drinking. It’s Great. There’s Just One Small Problem. Read More You’re not obligated to make any accommodations for them, especially when they’ve disregarded your requests and been inconsiderate. But it’s worth thinking about the fact that they won’t be the last ones in your group to have kids, and there might be a benefit to setting things up so that when other people become parents, they can still belong. Classic Prudie My husband has been texting his ex-wife rather extensively for some time and he has been hiding it from me. I would not be surprised if this has lasted our whole relationship. I accidentally found a text message to her very early on in our relationship when he asked me to read a text on his phone. I asked him about it right away and he said they were still friends and he didn’t want to stop talking to her… Don't miss what's new from Prudie Get advice on manners and morals in your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Dear Prudence newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Dear Prudence Advertisement