Trump Has a Plan to Rig the Midterms. Are Democrats Going to Do Anything About it
Politics Trump Wants to Rig the Midterms. Dems’ Plan to Fight Back Will Cost Them Dearly. Fighting the latest power grab is going to come at a steep long-term cost. By Daniel Strauss Aug 06, 20255:40 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis, criticism, and advice out there, delivered to your inbox daily. What would it take for you to kill a long-held dream in the most cynical way possible? For Democrats, it’s the prospect of two more years of an unchecked Donald Trump. The president is pushing a plan this summer that would tilt the all-important 2026 midterm elections in Republicans’ favor. Specifically, he’s ordering Texas Republicans to redraw the state’s congressional maps to tip five more House seats to the GOP. This is an emergency for Democrats, and for democracy. The House is narrowly divided, and Republicans adding five relatively easy wins would go a long way toward Trump keeping Congress under his thumb for the duration of his presidency—sinking Democrats’ hopes of slowing Trump’s far-right romp. Democrats’ early response has been to fight in Texas, trying increasingly desperate gambits to stop Republicans from redrawing the state’s maps. But while they may succeed in delaying the move, the most likely outcome, in a conservative state where Republicans control basically everything, is that the GOP will get its way. Democrats’ more promising avenue is to fight back outside of Texas, using their control of states such as California, New York, and Illinois to redraw the maps in their favor. The wheels to do so are already turning, but the moves are complicated and come at a steep cost. For years, a constellation of Democratic-leaning government reform groups and well-meaning lawmakers have attempted to make the drawing of congressional maps either bipartisan or nonpartisan. The goal was to draw the maps that honestly reflect the states’ voting populations, rather than using the redistricting process as a perpetual effort to cement one’s own power. But if Democrats in blue states mirror Texas Republicans—engaging in fiat overhauls of state law with an obvious political goal—they’re effectively giving up on those reforms for generations. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Ultimately, Democrats have a choice: They can abandon their principles in the hopes of preventing Trump from continuing to run rampant—or they can keep their principles intact and congratulate themselves on a morally pristine loss in 2026. And when you frame it like that, it’s not really a choice at all. Abha Khanna, a partner at the Elias Law Group with litigation experience in voting rights and redistricting, broke it down for me: “The idea that we can do [redistricting] in a nonpartisan or even a bipartisan manner is over.” So What Are Democrats Going to Do? For now, the maelstrom is centered in Texas. What Trump is requesting is exceptional: States usually redraw their maps once a decade, updating them to reflect demographic changes. But Trump wants lawmakers, for partisan reasons, to do a mid-cycle restructure to help him hold on to the House. In response, Democratic state lawmakers have fled the state, trying to deny Republicans—led by Gov. Greg Abbott—the quorum they need to redraw the maps. Some of them have taken refuge in Illinois, where Gov. J.B. Pritzker is vowing to protect them even as Abbott threatens to remove them from office (although his options are actually far more limited than Abbott is projecting). Advertisement Advertisement Ultimately, Democrats’ plan is a stall tactic, meant to garner national attention on a GOP power grab. In the long run, Republicans control big majorities in both chambers of the Texas Legislature, and it seems almost certain that they’ll find a way to get these new maps drawn. So Democrats’ actual hope for keeping a balance of seats lies in other states. In California, the state most likely to throw the biggest redistricting counterpunch if Texas Republicans are successful, Gov. Gavin Newsom said he would likely call a special session to redraw his state’s maps. Advertisement That wouldn’t be easy: California’s districts are drawn by an independent redistricting commission, the result of previous “good government” reforms. For California to make a retaliatory change, the state Legislature would need to first approve a measure to change the districts, then a special election would be held in November to make the changes. The timeline for this would be tight. California lawmakers come back from their summer recess in the middle of August, meaning they would have just about a month to debate and vote on the ballot language and the new maps. (And let’s be real, American legislative bodies rarely, if ever, move quickly—particularly when Democrats are involved.) Newsom, in the bizarre Democratic tradition of giving Republicans the benefit of the doubt, said earlier this week that he would make sure lawmakers would set “a trigger” so that the new ballot measure would only happen if Texas moved ahead with its change. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement “It would be really expensive. It would probably be litigated on the front end because you’d have to submit something to the AG, get a title and summary, that whole thing would be litigated, and then you’d have to run a campaign to pass it,” a keyed-in California Democratic strategist told me. The strategist added that such a race would turn into a national fracas, with GOP megadonors pouring money into defeating Democrats’ efforts. Elsewhere, other Democratic governors say they’ve had enough. New York Gov. Kathy Hochul on Monday said the state’s independent redistricting commission should be disbanded. “I’m tired of fighting this fight with my hand tied behind my back. With all due respect to the good government groups, politics is a political process,” she said at a press conference. “But I cannot ignore that the playing field has changed dramatically, and shame on us if we ignore that fact and cling tight to the vestiges of the past. That era is over—Donald Trump eliminated it forever.” Advertisement Advertisement Disbanding the redistricting commission would be a first step toward letting Democrats redraw the state’s maps in their favor, but subsequent steps—including an amendment to the state Constitution—mean Hochul’s state cannot get new maps ready in time for 2026. Advertisement Hochul’s sentiment, however, is quickly becoming Democratic consensus, as the party comes to terms with the idea that a “fair” map is a naive response to a president hell-bent on grabbing as much power as he can. Likely 2028 presidential candidates like former Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg set up a live instagram discussion for Monday to talk about how Democrats could “fight back.” The Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee is urging that “all options” should be on the table. At a meeting of Democratic governors over the weekend in Madison, Wisconsin, a number of them vocally backed Newsom’s efforts to do whatever he could to counter Republicans’ maps. Advertisement Even among donors there’s movement. The National Democratic Redistricting Committee will host an August fundraiser on Martha’s Vineyard featuring former President Barack Obama, former Attorney General Eric Holder, and House Speaker Emeritus Nancy Pelosi, a person involved confirmed to me. The funds raised from that event will be used to support Texas Democrats fighting Republicans’ redistricting efforts. How Does This End? Not well! Related From Slate Ben Mathis-Lilley Voters Keep Telling Democrats Exactly How the Party Needs to Change. Here’s Why They Don’t Listen. Read More Popular in News & Politics This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Bad News for Trump’s Nobel Peace Prize Ambitions Think You’re Smarter Than a Slate Features Editor? Find Out With This Week’s News Quiz. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only One Thing Made This Week’s Execution in Tennessee Particularly Horrific This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Trump Is Asking the Supreme Court to Bless Stephen Miller’s Racial Profiling Texas Republicans’ grab for more seats effectively fired the starting pistol for a new era of ultra-partisan redistricting. And it’s a race in which Democrats are at a disadvantage. Republicans dominate more states than Democrats do. In 23 states, Republicans have a “trifecta”—control of the governor’s mansion and both chambers of the legislature. Democrats have only 15 such trifectas, while the other 12 states are run by divided governments. And so if every state abandons any pretense of good government reform and just goes all out to maximize its partisan advantage, Republicans are more likely to come out on top. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Signs of the arms race keep popping up: Vice President J.D. Vance is reportedly considering a trip to Indiana this week to see if Republicans there can redraw the maps to tip another seat or two toward the GOP. Still, it’s unclear what choice Democrats have: It’s not as if promising to play nice will get Republicans to do the same. And given Trump’s airtight control of the GOP, it’s unlikely that any red state would resist his call to skew the maps further in their favor. But while the long-run consequences might be bad, so are the long-run consequences of an additional two years of an unfettered DJT. As Holder, Obama’s attorney general, told the New York Times: “If you give Donald Trump unchecked power for two years beyond 2026, given what they’ve done in six months, I just wonder what kind of shape will the nation be in come Jan. 20, 2029.” Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment California Congress Democrats Donald Trump Elections House of Representatives Republicans Slate Plus Texas New York Advertisement