Get your struttin’ shoes on, it’s Summer Strut 2025.
Culture Gabfest Aug 06, 20253:20 AM Summer Strut 2025 Edition On this week’s show, it’s finally time to reveal the rollicking, warm-weather playlist of pure bops generated by you, our listeners. It’s Summer Strut 2025! Copy Link Share Share View Transcript Advertisement Listen & Subscribe Choose your preferred player: Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music TuneIn RSS Feed For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. All Slate Plus Podcasts Get Your Slate Plus Podcast If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a valid phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the podcast in your app: Text me the link! We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up manually: How does this work? copy copied! We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer, click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed, check our FAQ. Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Episode Notes It’s the most feelin’ yourself time of the year; a time for uptempo jams to make the sidewalk your runway; a time for the annual Summer Strut playlist! As per tradition, Steve, Dana, and Julia are joined by music critic and chartologist Chris Molanphy to sift through the hundreds of listener submissions to pick their favorite songs to strut to this season. They’ll also kick off the show with a discussion of the song of the summer. You can find the panel’s collective favorites here, at the Summer Strut ‘25 Shortlist. In addition, Dana, Julia, Steve, and Chris, have also published their personal best-of lists. Intrepid listeners are welcome to explore the gigantic original playlist here. In the exclusive Slate Plus segment, the panel does two rapid fire rounds to discuss eight more songs for all your strutting needs. Email us your thoughts at culturefest@slate.com. Podcast production by Benjamin Frisch. Production assistance by Daniel Hirsch. Bonus: Summer Strut Rapid Fire Remix A few more Summer Strut faves for your consideration. Copy Link Share Share Comedy Movies Music Summer Video Games Advertisement About the Show New York Times critic Dwight Garner says, “The Slate Culture Gabfest is one of the highlights of my week.” The award-winning Culturefest features Slate culture critics Stephen Metcalf, Dana Stevens, and Julia Turner debating the week in culture, from highbrow to pop. All episodes Hosts Dana Stevens is Slate’s movie critic. Julia Turner, former editor in chief of Slate, is a senior fellow at the USC Annenberg Center on Communication Leadership and Policy and a regular on Slate’s Culture Gabfest podcast. Chris Molanphy is a feature writer and critic who writes widely about music and the pop charts. Stephen Metcalf is Slate’s critic at large. He is working on a book about the 1980s.