My Boss Gave Me a Snarky Piece of Feedback. Then He Didn’t Like My Response.
Good Job My Boss Gave Me a Snarky Piece of Feedback. Then He Didn’t Like My Response. Advice by Doree Shafrir Aug 05, 20254:53 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by gorodenkoff/iStock/Getty Images Plus and LightFieldStudios/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Good Job is Slate’s advice column on work. Have a workplace problem big or small? Send it to Laura Helmuth and Doree Shafrir here. (It’s anonymous!) Dear Good Job, I’m a department manager at a retail store. I have a new store manager, and our communication has been hit or miss. But what I’ve been most struggling with is how to respond to his negative feedback. (And, to be clear, it’s “where to improve” negative feedback, not “about to be fired” negative feedback.) I have been told by other store managers to take things less emotionally. It’s an awkward point to me because I don’t care very much what an individual person thinks of me, but I do care a lot about doing my job well in general. (I am autistic, and this might be relevant.) I am hard on myself, and I just genuinely feel bad if I learn I did something at a lower standard. If I actually did something that caused a problem, I’ll get visibly upset. I’m trying to be calmer about this. But in one recent instance, when I tried to be calm after feedback, my new boss seemed frustrated and told me I should feel ashamed! I know that’s a saying, but it’s still an instruction to have a particular emotional state. So I gave it some thought. During the next instance of feedback, he said something snarky to me, so I said: “That seems mocking—is it meant to be hurtful and mocking?” He responded with something to the effect of, “You can take it that way.” So I did! I actually I let myself feel disappointed and upset with myself instead of trying to hide it, and I asked for a few moments to step away after the conversation. I was visibly affected. That was genuine, but it was also because, I had been told it was the appropriate response. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Well, his response was right back to “too emotional” and saying they “can’t tell you anything without upsetting you.” So please tell me: What’s the Goldilocks amount of upset? How do I convey that I’m taking a concern seriously, without coming across as fragile? —Taking It Personally Dear Taking It Personally, Years ago, when I was an editor at a website that rhymes with FuzzNeed, they decided that everyone at a certain level needed to take a personality test. I remember getting mine back and there was this one section that was literally outside of the pie chart where they had all of our personality traits, and they told me that was my “emotional response” to things. Of course, this was presented as a negative. So forgive me if my response to your letter is likewise overly emotional, but as someone who was often told I was being “too sensitive” by people who were actually just being mean, my read on this situation is that your boss is a monster, you’re being gaslit and manipulated, and your job isn’t accommodating your disability—they are exploiting it. Let me be clear: The way these people are behaving is NOT OK. You are not the problem here—they are. A manager deliberately being hurtful and mocking their employee is not acceptable. This is bullying. For these people, there is never going to be a “Goldilocks” amount of being upset or emotional, because they will twist and manipulate whatever you do or say. Advertisement Advertisement While you look for another job in a less toxic work environment, I would practice taking their feedback in as dispassionate a manner as possible. Responses like, “Thanks, I’ll make sure to do that next time,” acknowledge the feedback while remaining neutral. I would not ask for any additional information on tone or anything beyond exactly what they’re telling you. Don’t ask additional questions, just accept the feedback and move on. If you have someone in your life, like a friend or family member, with whom you could practice this with, even better. Developing a script will help you take the emotion out of it in the moment—but as one highly sensitive person to another, you’re totally still allowed to feel your feelings. Just look at this as a coping mechanism for dealing with some pretty awful people in the meantime. Advertisement Get work advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Good Job,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Good Job following up) Submit Dear Good Job, I am a 1099 contractor. My work and colleagues are amazing, but I think I have to quit. Here’s why: while I’m good at my job, always on time, reliable, conscientious and I get along well with everyone, I am unfairly penalized by management whenever I have to say ‘no’ to them. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. I have a zero hours contract so my hours can be erratic, short notice and often anti-social. For the most part I accommodate the needs of the business, but there are times when I have to decline work due to family commitments or medical appointments. That’s when the problems start. Although I will always communicate clearly, and early, when this situation comes up, it seems to enrage the management team. They don’t say a word, but their actions speak volumes. This last week I emailed to say I would not be available for one shift and they retaliated by taking me off two shifts in a move that felt petty, at best, and cost me a day’s money. I know from when colleagues have done it that escalating this kind of thing internally just makes the situation worse, and I’ve been told that as a contractor, the HR dept will not engage with me. I have tried sitting down with my direct management to express my desire to cooperate and resolve this ongoing issue, but I’m met with platitudes and the same cycle just continues. I’m not alone in this. Around half the team are employees and the rest are 1099s like me, and we all face the same problems. Advertisement I’m also waiting on delayed payment of an invoice which has been disputed because I billed for the day I was booked for after they sent me home half way through the shift due to ‘unforeseen schedule changes’. Advertisement So my question is, is there anything I can do to make work less toxic? I’m fed up of being made to feel like the bad guy for not being on call 24/7. Is my only option to walk away? —Peeved Contractor Related From Slate Jamilah Lemieux My Sister-in-Law Just Did Something Shocking at the Family Cabin Read More Dear Peeved Contractor, They are never going to respect you or your time—they’ve made that abundantly clear. It’s time to look for another job and walk away. Don’t be shocked if they try to get you to stay once you quit, because they know what a good deal they have in you, but stay strong and leave them in the rearview mirror. You deserve to be treated with dignity and they are not doing that. I would also just take a little look-see into your state’s labor laws and figure out if you’ve been misclassified as a 1099 employee when you should be a W2 employee. Now, I’m sure these very kind, upstanding people definitely would not deliberately misclassify employees to save on payroll taxes and benefits. That seems wholly out of character for them, and it would really be a shame if it turned out they were violating labor laws all these years and owe you back pay! —Doree More Advice From Slate My husband “Greg” and I have an 8-year-old son, “Trevor,” and a 6-year-old daughter, “Rose,” and I have reached a breaking point with his method of disciplining them. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Workplace Jobs Advertisement