My Boss Has a New Lunch Rule. It Would Make Sense in a Middle School—Not a Professional Office.
Good Job My Boss Has a New Lunch Rule. It Would Make Sense in a Middle School—Not a Professional Office. Advice by Doree Shafrir Aug 05, 20253:10 PM Photo illustratioon by Slate. Photos by dikushin/Getty Images Plus and monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Good Job is Slate’s advice column on work. Have a workplace problem big or small? Send it to Laura Helmuth and Doree Shafrir here. (It’s anonymous!) Dear Good Job, Earlier this year, my company called us all back to work “in person,” with no remote working anymore. Our supervisor had a “great idea” for us to get to know each other “in person”(even though many of us have been working together remotely for years). She made a rule that if two people are going to lunch together, they need to send a message to the team inviting everyone to join. Great idea on paper—you get to mingle and chat with coworkers you may not know well over lunch. But in reality, trying to get a table for 8-10 people, placing that many orders, then trying to carry on a conversation, and still finishing before your lunch hour was over was quite an effort. So I, along with a couple of other longtime employees, started to basically ignore her—we’d go out to lunch once each week without informing the whole group where we were going and at what time. Well, about four weeks ago, we got caught. Our supervisor came into a restaurant to eat alone and found four of us sitting at a table together. She came and stood by the table and said she hadn’t seen any emails about us meeting as a group at this particular place. I explained we are all longtime employees and this gives us a chance to just to talk with our little group about our families and other things. Her response was how were the other coworkers going to learn about your families if you don’t invite them out to lunch with you? I was later reprimanded at work for “not following work policies” (I guess because I was the one that spoke back to her). So we came up with a different plan. Now on the days we plan on eating out, we take our lunch at 10:30 a.m., right when a couple of our favorite places open for lunch. We send out the invitation messages like we’re supposed to, but of course nobody else really wants to eat lunch that early, and so it’s been just our group eating. Well, I got called into the supervisor’s office and was told that I was “violating the intent of the lunch policy.” Now, she said, we could only take our lunch between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. and would be written up for not following her policies. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement I told her to go ahead as our employee handbook states we get two 15-minute paid breaks and an hour of unpaid lunch with no specific times stated. She said it was “implied” that lunch would be over the normal lunch hour and would follow through on her threat of a write up for all of us if we did it again. Is she nuts? I talk to the other workers during our 15-minute breaks so it not like I haven’t met or socialized with these other people, I just want to have a quiet, relaxed lunch with my close work friends. —Lunch Lady Dear Lunch Lady, Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. In the spirit of the Am I the Asshole subreddit, I’m going to give this letter a gentle ESH—that is, “Everyone Sucks Here.” As someone who worked at a magazine that rhymes with Strolling Zone where the same little cliques of people went out to lunch every day and never invited the rest of us, I am sympathetic to your manager’s (ultimately misguided, but I’ll get to that in a bit) efforts to encourage socializing with others in the office. A lot of important team-building and information-sharing (what some of us like to call “office gossip”) happens in these informal gatherings like lunches and after-work drinks, and the people who are excluded are often at a disadvantage. Advertisement Advertisement At the same time, I am also sympathetic to people like you, who just want to take their precious lunch hour on their own terms with people they like, and not have to worry about accommodating the others in the office around whom they may not be as comfortable. It’s your free time and you should be able to spend it as you see fit. So I also think that mandating that every lunch hour should be open to all is a little ridiculous. Advertisement I wonder if you could propose a compromise. Maybe there could be a team lunch once a week (on the company’s dime? Hey, a girl can dream), but people can decide what they want to do the other four days of the week. Also, I know you have your little crew at work, but once in awhile it might be nice for you to reach out to someone else you work with and ask them to have lunch. You never know who might end up being a friend, or even just a decent lunch companion. —Doree Classic Prudie A few months ago, I met a wonderful man through an online dating site. He is a physician and we are both middle-aged. Our relationship has evolved quickly, and we have fallen in love. We spend most of our free time together. Ever since the beginning, though, he has expressed that he would like to see me lose some weight. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Workplace Jobs Advertisement