It’s the Best Part of Freaky Friday. Here’s How It Came to Be.
Movies The Hidden History of that Freaky Friday Banger Of course “Take Me Away” became an anthem of teen angst. Teens wrote it. By Nadira Goffe Follow Nadira Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Nadira_Goffe newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Nadira Goffe? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 05, 202512:30 PM Disney Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Fanatics of the popular 2003 Disney movie Freaky Friday, an adaptation of a 1972 novel by Mary Rodgers and remake of the 1976 Jodie Foster–led film, have dug into every inch of the movie. But despite the overwhelming popularity of the aughts version, casual fans might not know that the movie’s featured track “Take Me Away” wasn’t actually written by in-house Disney songwriters. It was penned by a group of teenage girls in Australia. Freaky Friday—which stars Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan as a mother and teen daughter, respectively, who learn to relate to each other after they inadvertently switch bodies—has been (thankfully) kept alive for more than two decades as a landmark in the cultural diet of millennials and Gen Z cuspers. This, of course, includes “Take Me Away,” an absolute banger (just ask Curtis) that anchors an important moment in the story. It’s performed on-screen and officially recorded by the fictitious band Pink Slip, fronted by Freaky Friday actress Christina Vidal Mitchell. (Lohan doesn’t actually appear on the recorded track.) The real band behind the song is the defunct all-female Australian rock group Lash, made up of Belinda-Lee Reid and Jessica Bennett on guitar, Micaela Slayford on bass, and Jaclyn Pearson on the drums. Now, 22 years after the movie’s original release, Freakier Friday is hitting theaters. Luckily for Freaky fans, the follow-up arrives complete with a “Take Me Away” rerecording from Vidal Mitchell and Pink Slip. Slate called up Pearson, Lash’s drummer, who currently works as a lecturer and researcher of microbiology at Scotland’s University of St. Andrews, to discuss how “Take Me Away” came to be, the staying power of the song, and what it feels like to write a hit without the world knowing you were behind it. This conversation has been edited and condensed for clarity. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Slate: When you got that call saying, “Hey, your song’s going to be in a Disney movie,” did you think that “Take Me Away” would become as big of a deal as it did? Jaclyn Pearson: No way. We had no concept. We didn’t know it was going to be a central theme throughout the movie. We saw nothing before the film came out, and then we went and watched it at the cinema, and we were just like, “My God.” We were laughing, saying, “This is so cool. Our song is the thing in the movie.” It is! It is the thing! We sat and waited at the end for the credits to come up, and we saw our names at the very end, and that was just really satisfying. But it was mind-blowing. We had no idea, and then no idea that people would talk about it for years to come. They would be like, “I love that movie, I love that song,” and they wouldn’t realize that it was us. But as soon as you mention it, not one person has ever said to me, “I don’t really know what that film is.” Everyone knows. How old were you all when you wrote “Take Me Away”? The [others] would’ve been 16, and I was 19 at the time. We’d been writing songs together since they were 13. Did you all meet in school? Yeah. We went to this all-girl Catholic school in Perth, in Western Australia, and we thought we were rebels. We used to play music in the old part of the school at lunchtime, where the nuns used to live and there were old, battered-up musical instruments. I had a band that used to play every day. Then I met these three girls who would sneak into the music room, and I realized they were very talented, writing their own songs, playing their instruments. So I started hanging out with them, even though they were a lot younger than me. They asked me to record some songs with them. They had already won a music contest, the West Australian Music Awards, in the youth category, for a song that is actually on the B-side of “Take Me Away.” Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement By the time it got to writing “Take Me Away,” there was already record company interest after playing pubs and writing more songs and lots of rehearsing. That was a collaborative process with some pretty big record producers, whereby they came in and said, “We really like you and we want to give you an opportunity to be huge,” basically. Tell me more about what the mindset was when you were writing “Take Me Away.” Where did the idea for the song come from? We’d always been what we thought of as angsty teenagers, and probably not so much me, but I would say Micaela who sings the song. She just really puts a lot of feeling into her lyrics. It’s a little bit But I’m tough and I’m going to get through it and I don’t care what you think, this is me and this is how I’m going to live my life. It’s such a typical 15-year-old, 16-year-old’s view of the world. Advertisement It was a response to all those sorts of things—family pressures, school pressures, and being a woman as well—and that’s probably not something I’ve appreciated until later. At the time, you don’t realize a lot of the angst is coming from being a woman in a male-dominated industry, a male-dominated world. Advertisement Advertisement And it was immensely satisfying, by the time we were playing that song live to crowds, hearing the roar of everyone knowing the words. The Pink Slip version doesn’t say “Same old shit never ends,” but ours says that, and the crowd would just yell that part. That’s my favorite part. Everyone feels that every day, every part of their life. So it’s like, we may be teenagers, but I think it resonated with slightly older people as well. Advertisement Speaking of the Pink Slip version—the Freaky Friday version—how did this song get involved in the movie? Advertisement We were rehearsing, and we got a phone call from the record company saying, “Oh, by the way, ‘Take Me Away’ is going to be used in a Disney film.” We were like, “OK, what?” That was really exciting for us. We often didn’t get fed a lot of information back then because we were young and we didn’t ask enough questions, so we got a bit swept away with how exciting it was that it was going to be used. We found out only yesterday, when we went to visit the studios, that there was someone really great working on the film, Lisa, who was scouting for a song for the band to play in their garage [in the movie]. She’d come across it and thought, This is perfect. At the time, we were told, “You are going to come to the premiere and you’re going to play the song,” and that was probably the most exciting for us. But then, closer to the time, they said, “Oh, there’s not enough budget to do that,” so we couldn’t go. We were pretty disappointed. Advertisement Advertisement When we found out Freakier Friday was in the making, we were a lot older and wiser, and we asked Disney straight away, “Can we please attend the premiere?” They were just so lovely. They were like, “Oh my gosh, no one’s ever asked that, but we’ll do our best.” Sure enough, the invitations came through. How do you feel that most fans of the movie don’t know that it’s you that made the song? We spent years feeling a bit hard done by. Obviously, there was a gap there between the two films where we didn’t think about it that much. But when Freakier Friday was mentioned, there was almost this feeling of indignance. All this media started coming out, and people were calling it “ ‘Take Me Away’ by Pink Slip,” and other bands started covering the song and they were saying things like, “Oh, this is ‘Take Me Away,’ from Freaky Friday.” We got really worked up and were like, “No, this is not it. This is us, and no one talks about us.” Advertisement Advertisement We worked so hard. We were teenagers when we wrote this, and we worked our asses off and we didn’t get the opportunities we deserved at the time. Things did not turn out how we wanted it to. We never got to take in the glory of the moment. So this time we want to make sure that we are noticed and we are recognized and we get a little bit of acknowledgment, and we went really hard with Disney especially. We were emailing every day, saying, “This is our story—this is who we are. Please can you let the actors know that there’s someone else behind this?” Because there was a lot of praise on Pink Slip for the song. So we definitely had a very internally annoyed and aggressive and angry phase. Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Nadira Goffe The Award For the Most Delightfully Unhinged Awards Season Actor Goes To… Read More They did listen. They spoke to the musical director, they spoke to the actors, so now everyone knows who we are. I think maybe about two or three weeks ago, it really hit me that what people want is Pink Slip. That’s what they know and that’s what they want, and that’s OK. We got the recognition. We got a bit of acknowledgment. That’s fine with us. It feels like it’s where it should be. That feels like a nice full-circle conclusion. It was quite interesting. We’re really pleased and really excited. Plus, since Freakier Friday was announced earlier in the year, our Spotify streams for “Take Me Away” went from 3 million to over 10 million since March. All credit to Disney, and probably us pushing a bit too, but they recommended that we write “From Freaky Friday” in the song title on Spotify so that when people searched, they could see it. So that helped as well. Advertisement Advertisement What I find so funny about the song and the main scene it’s used for in the movie is that it’s a scene where nothing is going right. It’s a scene where the song actually gets horrendously messed up for the first half. Yet the song itself is still so relatable that even though it’s somewhat played for laughs in the first bit, it really gets you by the second bit. While watching it for the first time, were you all like, “The guitar playing is messed up, what are they doing”? Popular in Culture He Made a Joke So Racist Even Trump Rejected It. Now He’s the Most Powerful Comic in America. It’s Raining Dildos on WNBA Courts. You’ll Never Believe Who’s to Blame. Wednesday’s First Season Had Some Problems. Its Second Finds a Neat Solution. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only We Officially Have the New SNL of the Trump Era You’re so right. We had a chuckle about that. It reminds you of your own songwriting process when you’re getting things right. I mean, we have countless early recordings of “Take Me Away” when it does not sound like it does. You’re just like, Oh God. So, yeah, we had a good chuckle when we were watching the film as well, laughing and nudging each other. It’s a lovely process to see, and it’s good that they did it like that because that is the reality of music: It’s never perfect the first time. Do you ever still perform today? Not as Lash, no. I live in Scotland, and the others, two live in Perth and one lives in Melbourne in Australia. So they’re on opposite sides of the country. I mean, we talk to each other almost every day, but three of us have got kids, and we’ve all got jobs. Jess, she is building a recording studio, and she still actively plays in a number of bands, so she’s very, very active in the music industry. But as much as we’d like the opportunity to, we would just have to be right with the timing. It would be a dream come true. Get the best of culture Get the best of movies, TV, books, music, and more. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Culture newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Comedy Disney Music Teens Advertisement