Help! I’m Still Haunted By What My Mom and Sister Did to Me on Our Vacation.
Dear Prudence Help! I’m Still Haunted By What My Mom and Sister Did to Me on Our Vacation. I can’t trust them anymore. Advice by Jenée Desmond-Harris Follow Jenée Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Jenee_DesmondHarris newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Jenée Desmond-Harris? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 05, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Dear Prudence is Slate’s advice column. Submit questions here. Dear Prudence, I can’t seem to stop thinking about an incident that happened many years ago between my mother, my sibling (“Stella”), and me. It still bothers me and makes me wary of being in their company every time we get together. Years ago, for a milestone birthday, Stella and I treated our mother to an expensive trip to a faraway city. My mother has mobility issues, so we rented a mobility aid for her to get around in the city. I also arranged in advance for a special, once-in-a-lifetime type of tour of the city that would accommodate my mother’s mobility aid. Stella, unbeknownst to us, was using the time as a “working vacation” and had scheduled several meetings that interfered with plans to tour the city. Even though we were unpleasantly surprised by this, my mom insisted that we should all be together (instead of splitting up so that Stella could work while we did our sightseeing), which meant that she and I ended up waiting around for Stella to be ready to leave the hotel most days. On the day of the tour that I had arranged, Stella’s meeting dragged on, and then she was “too tired” to go on the tour. After a lot of arguing back and forth between us, Stella called the tour company and canceled the tour. I was angry, and my mom was disappointed. Fast forward to the end of the vacation: The mobility aid had to be returned before we left the city. I offered to take it back to the rental place and left my mom and sister at the hotel. We caught our flights home the next day. Weeks after we returned from the trip, after a couple of glasses of wine, my mom revealed that on the day that I returned the mobility aid, she and Stella took a tour (the very same tour that I booked for all of us) WITHOUT ME. She and Stella agreed to keep it a secret from me “because I would have gotten mad anyway” if they had told me. I was literally speechless and overcome with shock and rage! I felt so hurt and betrayed that I didn’t talk to my sister for months, even though my mother urged me to “just forgive her already.” Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Needless to say, this has severely eroded my trust in my mother and sister. As far as they’re concerned, everything is fine now. We’ve never really spoken about it, but it still really bothers me. I want to bring it up with them to get it off my chest, but would I be beating a dead horse? I’m not sure how to approach them to have this discussion. Is it even worth it at this point? —Next Time, I’m Vacationing With Strangers Dear Next Time, The part of this that involved keeping a secret from you hurts. Absolutely. So does the way your mom and sister dismissed your feelings about the incident. But I wonder if you can reframe your mom and sister taking the tour while you returned the mobility device as something other than a massive betrayal. Think of it this way: This trip was for your mom. Which means the goal was to make your mom happy. What made her happy was to be in the same space with her two daughters when that was possible, even if that meant skipping out on some sightseeing, hanging out in a hotel while one of them took Zoom calls and then recovered from said Zoom calls. So it makes sense that she chose to do the tour only when it didn’t interfere with her double-daughter time. This story isn’t about your mom and sister wanting to exclude you; it’s about your mom being strategic about her previous time with her two daughters. It’s not like they snuck out in the middle of the night and did it while you were asleep! You were already occupied. Either they would get to have the experience, or no one would. Remember, this was your mom’s big birthday. It’s not unreasonable that she’d want to squeeze this experience in. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Of course, it would have been nice for them to simply explain that—and even ask your permission. Stella could have said, “Hey, how would you feel about it if I took Mom on the tour while you’re out this afternoon?” But that is a conversation that someone who is thoughtful and considerate would initiate. As far as I can tell, Stella is neither of these things. From her failure to disclose that she would be working during the trip and her selfishness when she canceled the original tour, to her choosing to conceal the outing instead of being transparent with you, she doesn’t seem like a person who thinks about or cares about how her actions affect others. More than the details of this incident, I think it’s this facet of her that is getting in the way of your relationship. And I’m not surprised that she wasn’t receptive to a conversation about how you felt. Advertisement How did you feel when you cut her off for three months? Was it a nice reprieve from disagreements, disappointments, and slights? Or did you really miss your relationship? I think the answer will tell you a lot about how you want to move forward. If the incident in the letter was unusual and there’s a possibility that she had a lot going on with work, and maybe wasn’t her typical, kind self on the trip, could you consider letting it go? Advertisement Advertisement But if her behavior really represented her true personality—if she is consistently self-absorbed or insensitive—the smart thing would be to be more strategic about how you spend your time with her. Don’t agree to do any activities where your ability to have a good time relies on her behaving in a thoughtful and loving way. So yes, you can visit her or have lunch with her. But you probably don’t want to do a cross-country drive or choreograph a dance to perform together at your parents’ 50th wedding anniversary. Advertisement Advertisement There’s no conversation needed because you’re not getting anything out of rehashing something that happened years ago. Make this assessment and choose your path forward privately—and maybe go back and take that tour privately, too Get advice from Prudie—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Prudence,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Dear Prudence following up) Submit Dear Prudence, My brother has been with his current girlfriend, Jenna,” for a year and a half. He introduced her to the family approximately a year ago, although scheduling conflicts and so on have made it so we haven’t spent a ton of time with her. Jenna is very sweet, obviously trying very hard to ingratiate herself with the family, and most importantly, she makes my brother very happy. Great, right? Well, mostly. Around the beginning of this summer, the relationship became a lot more serious. Now I’m spending a lot more time with Jenna. Advertisement So I’ve discovered how annoying I find Jenna. Her mannerisms grate on my nerves. The PDA is awkward. (Though I recognize that’s also on my brother.) And most frustrating of all is how overfamiliar she is. She hugs, touches, and uses very intimate pet names, seemingly with me more than with other members of the family. This has been happening since our second interaction, but it’s all the more apparent now that we spend more time together. Advertisement I make an effort to be nice despite this, because it’s not Jenna’s fault we don’t get along well. (I checked with another relative, and they confirmed my behavior toward Jenna has been completely normal/polite/ordinary.) But if my brother and Jenna are in it for the long haul, I need to find a way to manage this irritation. Please help! —Misplaced Malcontent Dear Misplaced Malcontent, Give it some time. The few visits you’ve had mean she’s still in the trying hard phase when she sees you—and unfortunately, her trying hard is annoying. Advertisement But one of two things is going to happen. She’ll chill out and relax, or you’ll actually get to know her better. At that point, you can tell her that you do better with fewer pet names and hugs. The PDA between her and your brother is probably there to stay, but maybe it won’t bother you as much when she’s not throwing her arms around you and calling you “sweetie.” Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Prudie Wants to Hear From You! Readers often have great suggestions for our letter writers, occasionally disagree with a point Prudie makes, or simply want to provide some additional advice. Each week, Prudie will be replying to some of these comments and suggestions from readers, which will be featured on the site on Fridays for Slate Plus members. Write to us! Dear Prudence, I haven’t spoken to my adult children in over a decade. They’re 33 and 32. Their mother and I divorced 11 years ago. I’ve remarried. Their mother hasn’t. Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. I saw on social media that my daughter had a son who’s 7 now. I’ve respected their need for distance and stopped reaching out six years ago after years of no replies to emails or voicemails. I’m 63 now, with a serious health issue, and I’m wondering if I should try to reach out again. I’m torn between respecting their obvious desire for silence and a hope for some kind of communication. The situation is heartbreaking, but as I get older, I’m not sure if I should try again or if it’s best to let them reach out if they want contact. —Estranged Father Advertisement Advertisement Dear Estranged Father, You’re leaving quite a bit out! Like why your kids don’t want to talk to you. I assume they haven’t joined a cult that’s cut off their communication with you, but that this is about something that happened in your relationship with them. Is there any part of you that has a little bit of an idea about what that could be? Even if you think they are overreacting, too sensitive, or being unfair to you? Advertisement Dig deep, and if there is anything there, acknowledge it in a letter, apologize, and say you wish things could have been different. Tell them you love them and ask if they would consider talking to or seeing you. Then, wait patiently for their answer. Classic Prudie For more than a decade (I am in my early 30s now), my mother has engaged in a cruel habit of inviting me to a family gathering only to disinvite me at the last moment. Her motivations for doing so always have to do with the fact that I did not demonstrate “enough deference/respect/sympathy” toward her in some trivial conversation leading up to my visit… Don't miss what's new from Prudie Get advice on manners and morals in your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Dear Prudence newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Dear Prudence Advertisement