Senator Demands Bureau Of Prisons Explain Ghislaine Maxwell Transfer
Senator Demands Bureau Of Prisons Explain Ghislaine Maxwell Transfer "Sexual predators shouldn’t be afforded preferential treatment,” said the Rhode Island Democrat. By Ryan Grenoble Senior Reporter Aug 8, 2025, 02:43 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING The Bureau of Prisons moved Ghislaine Maxwell to one of its least restrictive facilities last week at the behest of the Trump administration, which has given no explanation for the bizarrely preferential treatment. So on Friday, Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.) demanded a formal explanation for the move from the director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Given the highly unusual nature of the transfer, it would have had to be personally approved by a high-level BOP staffer. Advertisement In the letter, addressed to BOP Director William Marshall, Reed asks directly if BOP approved the transfer in response to a request from President Donald Trump or any other Trump administration official. Sex offenders are not allowed to be sent to such facilities under BOP rules and require a special waiver for that to happen. “Sexual predators shouldn’t be afforded preferential treatment,” Reed said. “Earlier this week, BOP transferred Ms. Maxwell to ... the least restrictive facility operated by BOP, reserved for non-violent first-time offenders or inmates who are at the tail end of longer sentences and are slated for release,” Reed noted in the letter. Advertisement “A serious felon can be transferred to a minimum-security prison camp only after the personal approval by the Chief of the BOP’s Designation and Sentence Computation Center, who ultimately reports to you,” he added. Maxwell is serving a 20-year sentence for sexually abusing and trafficking children alongside Jeffrey Epstein, the disgraced financier and former friend of Donald Trump who died in prison while awaiting trial during Trump’s first term. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Todd Blanche, met with Maxwell just days before the transfer. (Blanche now serves as the number two official at the Department of Justice.) Advertisement “Ms. Maxwell’s victims and the taxpayers are owed an explanation of why BOP undertook this highly unusual transfer,” said Reed. “These circumstances raise serious questions ... about whether BOP is being politically pressured into reclassifying a violent felon as a low security risk against all evidence, which seems to elevate protection of President Trump’s personal reputation above public safety.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Trump found himself engulfed in the conflagration after his administration touted that it would release the government’s files on the Epstein case and then refused to do so. Trump’s name reportedly pops up repeatedly in the files. Advertisement The president has also repeatedly refused to rule out pardoning Maxwell, who presumably could likely offer devastating testimony on Trump and Epstein’s relationship. Reed has asked Marshall to respond to the letter no later than Aug. 20. Related U.S. Senate jeffrey epstein Ghislaine Maxwell Jack Reed It Took Trump 7 Years To Expel Epstein After Learning About ‘Stolen’ Staff Trump Administration Won’t Say Why It Transferred Ghislaine Maxwell To A Minimum-Security Prison Trump’s Sleight-Of-Hand On The Jeffrey Epstein Scandal What To Know About Ghislaine Maxwell, Jeffrey Epstein's Longtime Collaborator Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post