Money Talks The Fabulous Wealth of Carrie Bradshaw
Slate Money Aug 05, 20255:00 AM Money Talks: The Fabulous Wealth of Carrie Bradshaw Cheyna Roth joins Emily Peck to dissect the money on display in And Just Like That… Copy Link Share Share View Transcript Advertisement Listen & Subscribe Choose your preferred player: Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music TuneIn Pocket Casts RSS Feed For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. All Slate Plus Podcasts Get Your Slate Plus Podcast If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a valid phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the podcast in your app: Text me the link! We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up manually: How does this work? copy copied! We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer, click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed, check our FAQ. Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Episode Notes In this Money Talks: Slate’s own Cheyna Roth joins Emily Peck to break down how HBO’s Sex and the City revival And Just Like That…has taken the fantasy of being fabulous in New York City into a whole new tax bracket. They’ll discuss the curious dimensions of the kitchen in Carrie’s Manhattan mansion among other real estate mysteries within the show, examine why it’s so annoying to watch incredibly wealthy people be happy on TV, and ask if there really is any such thing as a “hate watch.” Want to hear that discussion and hear more Slate Money? Join Slate Plus to unlock weekly bonus episodes. Plus, you’ll access ad-free listening across all your favorite Slate podcasts. You can subscribe directly from the Slate Money show page on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. Or, visit slate.com/moneyplus to get access wherever you listen. Podcast production by Jessamine Molli and Cheyna Roth. Copy Link Share Share HBO TV Finance Advertisement About the Show A weekly roundup of the most important stories from the worlds of business and finance, hosted by Felix Salmon, Emily Peck, and Elizabeth Spiers. All episodes Hosts Emily Peck is the co-host of Slate Money and a markets correspondent for Axios. Cheyna Roth is a senior producer at Slate working on shows like Political Gabfest, The Waves, and more. She is also the author of two true crime books.