My Coping Strategy for Living With ADHD Is Falling Apart. How Do I Give Myself a Break
How To! Aug 05, 20254:20 AM How To Let Go of ADHD Shame Dr. Sarah Wheeler on loving your ADHD brain—and letting go of perfection. Copy Link Share Share View Transcript Advertisement Listen & Subscribe Choose your preferred player: Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music TuneIn Pocket Casts RSS Feed For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. All Slate Plus Podcasts Get Your Slate Plus Podcast If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a valid phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the podcast in your app: Text me the link! We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up manually: How does this work? copy copied! We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer, click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed, check our FAQ. Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Episode Notes Jessi navigates life with ADHD using a complex web of coping strategies. She used to strive for absolute perfection, but feels overwhelming guilt when she forgets something or loses focus at work or at home. On this episode, How To! co-host Carvell Wallace introduces Jessi to Dr. Sarah Wheeler, an educational psychologist who specializes in ADHD. Dr. Wheeler shares her own experience with ADHD and helps Jessi chart a sustainable path forward to self-acceptance, minus the anxiety and shame. Dr. Wheeler’s Resources and Recommendations Sarah’s ADHD story Sarah’s Substack and podcast More about Sarah and her work Joan Wilder’s site Help for Women with ADHD Salif Muhamane’s Ted Talk, “ADHD Sucks, But Not Really” Kate Weber’s Women & ADHD podcast You’ve Always Been This Way: “Hello, I’m New Here,” by McSweeney’s columnist Taylor Harris Check out: How To Navigate Adult Autism and our discussion of ADHD and organizing in How To Do Housework (and Not Hate It) How can How To! help you?? Send us a note at howto@slate.com or leave us a voicemail at 646-495-4001 and we might have you on the show. Subscribe for free on Apple, Spotify or wherever you listen. The show is produced by Rosemary Belson, with Kevin Bendis and Sophie Summergrad. Our technical director is Merritt Jacob and our supervising producer is Joel Meyer. Want more How To!? Subscribe to Slate Plus to unlock exclusive bonus episodes. Plus, you’ll access ad-free listening across all your favorite Slate podcasts. Visit slate.com/howtoplus to get access wherever you listen. Copy Link Share Share Advice Health Mental Health Podcasts Advertisement About the Show We all need advice, but sometimes it’s hard to know where to turn. Each week, Courtney Martin and Carvell Wallace bring a listener on to the show to solve their toughest problems with the help of world-class experts. It’s free therapy, and you’re invited. All episodes Host Carvell Wallace is a New York Times bestselling author, contributing writer to the New York Times Magazine, and a former Slate parenting columnist and co-host of Mom and Dad Are Fighting. He also hosted the Finding Fred podcast and writes for GQ, Esquire, the Atlantic, the New Yorker, and other outlets.