Help! My Husband Committed the Ultimate Blunder at My Sister’s Wedding.
Dear Prudence Help! My Husband Committed the Ultimate Blunder at My Sister’s Wedding. My family may never forgive him. Advice by Jenée Desmond-Harris Follow Jenée Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the aa_Jenee_DesmondHarris newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Jenée Desmond-Harris? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 04, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Dear Prudence is Slate’s advice column. Submit questions here. Dear Prudence, My husband got totally hammered at my sister’s wedding and somehow ended up falling into the wedding cake. I reimbursed them for the cost of it and made my husband write a letter of apology, but they are still furious, as are more than a few family members. What can we do to mend fences? —Cake Catastrophe Dear Cake Catastrophe, I really wish everyone could embrace the idea that weddings aren’t supposed to be perfect. It would eliminate so much angst. We all know that when you invite your friends and family with their various quirks and issues into the same room together and give them alcohol, things happen. Inappropriate outfits are worn, strange comments are made, and speeches include TMI moments and embarrassing tangents. And yes, occasionally, something more dramatic takes place, like someone chooses the moment to propose and steals attention from the couple, or a man collides with the cake. It’s a departure from the plan, but at the end of the day, the married people are married, they are surrounded by loved ones, and everything is fine. But that advice is for your sister and brother-in-law, not for you and your husband. You’ve handled this unfortunate incident perfectly, and now you should give them space to decide if they can get over it. It’s worth reflecting on whether the wedding incident was a last straw (has your husband been trashed every time he socializes with them? Did he also pass out and crash into the balloon arch at the bride’s 30th birthday?) and if he needs to work on his drinking or unruly behavior. If not, and if it was truly just a one-off freak accident, accept that they’re mad and wish them luck with their marriage from afar. They’ll need luck because if they can’t lighten up about something like a cake collapse, life’s actual challenges are going to be a lot for them to handle. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Get advice from Prudie—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Prudence,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Dear Prudence following up) Submit Dear Prudence, An old friend, “Valerie,” recently said something that’s left me reeling. I sent her a song just released by an artist we both love, with the message, “This is such a bop, have you heard it yet?” (It’s normal for us to send each other music, by the way.) She sent back, “Wow … surprised you like this! It’s kinda our song!” The song is called “Brutus,” and the music video has one woman jealously longing for another’s life, while the lyrics talk about how she feels like Brutus to this woman’s Caesar. “If I’m speaking honestly, I wish I had your life” is a line in the chorus. I asked Valerie what she meant and which of us she thought was “Brutus.” She laughed-reacted, then got annoyed when I sincerely didn’t know, and said she knows I’ve “always been jealous” of her. I said this simply wasn’t true and asked why she thought that, and got a dismissive/condescending response reiterating that it was “obvious” I would “kill for [her] life.” Advertisement For context, Valerie was popular in high school, while I was quieter and more nerdy. She was sporty and always had a boyfriend, while I was a closeted lesbian and didn’t get outdoors much. We met in an art club and got close anyway. We’re in our late 20s now. It truly hadn’t occurred to me to compare our lives in this way, but since she’s made it relevant: I’m happily married and in a great job with good pay, while she’s just out of a messy divorce from her high school boyfriend (they both cheated) and getting back into the workforce after years as a stay-at-home mom. I have never in my life been jealous of her, but I find it a particularly insulting comment at this exact moment! My wife has never liked Valerie and says she seems very insecure, which I’d have sympathy for if she hadn’t made this horrible comment to me and doubled down on it. I actually can’t believe someone would say this! I haven’t spoken to her in days and don’t know what to say. Can you advise on how best to move on from this, if I can? I’ve resisted saying a lot of very insulting things to Valerie in response, but it’s tempting. —Et Tu, Valerie? Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Dear Valerie, When you wrote, “My wife has never liked Valerie and says she seems very insecure,” I thought, “Ding, ding, ding! That’s it!” Insecurity is the quality behind so much weird and hurtful behavior. I don’t think you want to respond by telling her that you would never want her awful life. She knows that, and it’s why she’s so desperate to get you to believe a different story. Forgot the song, forget Brutus and Caesar, and forget about why she is the way she is. She’s a person who is intentionally and unapologetically hurting your feelings. That’s not a friend. Choose whatever breakup song you want for your personal soundtrack and don’t call her again. Prudie Wants to Hear From You! Readers often have great suggestions for our letter writers, occasionally disagree with a point Prudie makes, or simply want to provide some additional advice. Each week, Prudie will be replying to some of these comments and suggestions from readers, which will be featured on the site on Fridays for Slate Plus members. Write to us! Advertisement Dear Prudence, Last fall, I broke up with an ex who strung me along about marriage for years. So I began this summer intending to date around and ease into a steady relationship. I’m in my mid-30s and outgoing enough to meet men organically, but bachelors in my city tend to be flaky and unreliable. Advertisement Advertisement I was going on regular dates with a fun younger guy in my neighborhood for a couple of months before I left for a work conference in a faraway city. Well, I hit it off with a man there, who is closer to my age and compatible with me in terms of values, culture, and lifestyle. After spending a few days together, we got intimate and had a great time. Advertisement Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. The problem is, now that I’m back home … my neighbor wants to be my boyfriend, and my distant lover wants to keep up daily communication. While Contestant #1 is exciting and passionate, he’s not quite ready to settle down, and I won’t be able to see Contestant #2 for months besides FaceTime calls, which is NOT the kind of relationship I want. I’d like to be real with these guys about my goals, which may require letting them both down. But how can I do so compassionately? —LoveGirl Advertisement Dear LoveGirl, “I’ve really enjoyed my time with you and I think we’re compatible in so many ways, but I want [a serious relationship leading to marriage right now/a relationship that isn’t long distance], so I don’t think it’s going to work out.” Advertisement They will probably try to talk you out of your decision, but listen carefully for “Actually, I am ready to settle down” or “I’ll move to your city.” If you don’t hear one of those assurances, stand firm (but kind) and reply with, “I just wouldn’t be happy, and I’d rather end on a high note,” and, if you need to, “I’ve made up my mind.” Classic Prudie I work with several master’s and Ph.D. students, almost all of whom are women, during the course of my research at a large state university. My work with these students sometimes involves introducing them to new data sets or software, but it is mostly a peer relationship, as I am not a professor and these are advanced and talented students. The other day, I was pointing out a new data set to a female student and asked if she wanted me to walk her through it… Don't miss what's new from Prudie Get advice on manners and morals in your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Dear Prudence newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Dear Prudence Family Advertisement