Group Takes Credit For Throwing Sex Toys At WNBA Games And Reveals Its Motives
Group Takes Credit For Throwing Sex Toys At WNBA Games And Reveals Its Motives The stunt somehow seems even stupider now, and to make matters worse, Donald Trump Jr. chimed in. By Pocharapon Neammanee Associate reporter Aug 8, 2025, 02:31 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Cryptocurrency creators are now taking credit for throwing sex toys onto the court at multiple WNBA games, saying they intended to stir up controversy and promote their memecoin. The self-confessed dildo-throwers say they launched the memecoin Green Dildo Coin on the Ethereum blockchain on July 28, a day before the first dildo-tossing incident. After Barstool Sports reported on the group’s identity on Wednesday, the price of the coin skyrocketed. Advertisement “We knew that in order to get a voice in the space ... we had to go out and do some viral stunts to save us from having to pay that influencer cabal, sacrifice our souls and the fate of the project,” X user @Daldo_Rain, a spokesperson for the crypto group, told USA Today Sports. Neon green sex toys have been thrown from the crowd during WNBA games multiple times in recent weeks. The first incident happened on July 29 at the Gateway Center Arena in College Park, Georgia, and seven similar incidents followed, with the latest happening on Thursday at the Wintrust Arena in Chicago. Advertisement Two men were arrested for allegedly throwing sex toys, but the crypto group spokesperson told USA Today that those people were not connected with Green Dildo Coin. The spokesperson also said the group did not mean to harm anyone and claimed they created the memecoin to protest against “toxic” crypto culture, in which smaller players are struggling to keep up with influencers. But the WNBA has been in an uproar over the toxicity of the prank itself, which players and fans have called out as disrespectful, pleading for it to end. Advertisement Indiana Fever guard Sophie Cunningham wrote on X, “stop throwing dildos on the court… you’re going to hurt one of us.” stop throwing dildos on the court… you’re going to hurt one of us. — Sophie Cunningham (@sophaller) August 2, 2025 “Please do better. It’s not funny. never was funny. Throwing ANYTHING on the court is so dangerous,” the New York Liberty’s Isabelle Harrison wrote on X. Advertisement Chicago Sky center Elizabeth Williams told reporters, “it’s super disrespectful,” after a sex toy was thrown during her game against the Golden State Valkyries on Aug. 1. “I don’t really get the point of it. It’s really immature. Whoever’s doing it just needs to grow up,” Williams said. On Thursday, Donald Trump Jr. chimed in, mocking the controversy with an AI-generated image of his dad throwing a green sex toy onto an WNBA court from the White House roof. Advertisement View this post on Instagram A post shared by Donald Trump Jr. (@donaldjtrumpjr) Former MSNBC host Mehdi Hasan pointed out the irony of Trump Jr.’s post. “Remember these are the same people who bash trans people because they care about ‘women’s sports,’” he wrote on X. “Er, ok.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. The crypto group’s spokesperson told USA Today, “We didn’t do this because, like, we dislike women’s sports or, like, some of the narratives that are trending right now are ridiculous.” Advertisement “Creating disruption at games is like, it happens in every single sport, right? We’ve seen it in the NFL, we’ve seen it in hockey, you know . . . fans doing random things to more or less create attention,” the spokesperson said. The spokesperson went on to say there will be more pranks moving forward, but claimed, “they’re a lot lighter. They’re a lot more tasteful.” Related wnba cryptocurrency women's sports This 'Creepy' Practice Is Taking Over The WNBA — And Exposing Deep-Rooted Disrespect For Women WNBA Takes Hands-On Approach To Stop Its Sex Toy Problem Cryptocurrency Investors Are Cashing In On A Trump Tax Break Meant To Help The Poor Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In U.S. News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post