My Neighbor Asked If Our Son Was OK After His “Adventure.” That’s How We Learned What Happened While He Was With Grandma.
Care and Feeding My Neighbor Asked If Our Son Was OK After His “Adventure.” That’s How We Learned What Happened While He Was With Grandma. I can’t forgive this. Advice by Allison Price Aug 04, 20256:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Care and Feeding is Slate’s parenting advice column. Have a question for Care and Feeding? Submit it here. Dear Care and Feeding, Last week, my mother-in-law, “Brooke,” babysat for our 3-year-old son, “Steven,” while my husband and I attended the wedding of a friend. When we returned home, everything seemed fine, and Brooke drove back to her place. The next day, I ran into a neighbor while I was getting the mail, who asked if Steven was OK after his “little adventure.” I had no idea what she was talking about and said as much. She said that she had been mowing her lawn when Steven ran past her house. When she realized there was no adult with him, she caught him and brought him back to our place. She said Brooke answered the door and, when told about what happened, said that she had fallen asleep and that Steven must have let himself out. A review of our porch cam footage did indeed show Steven leaving the house about an hour after my husband and I left, and the neighbor returning with him … 45 minutes later! When I called Brooke and confronted her with what the neighbor had revealed and demanded to know why she hadn’t said anything, her response was that she “knew I would overreact.” I told her that she wasn’t going to be seeing my son for the foreseeable future and hung up. My husband wasn’t pleased with what happened either, but thinks we should simply no longer allow her to watch our son without us present, and that I’m being too harsh. Our toddler was wandering the neighborhood for nearly an hour, and it is nothing short of a miracle that things didn’t end in tragedy. How can I get him to understand the seriousness of what happened here? —Runaway Toddler Terror Dear Runaway, This is a really scary situation, and I’m sorry you were in it. I’m happy that everyone was safe in the end. Your mother-in-law withholding the events from you is a major breach of trust, and I don’t love how she downplayed the situation when you confronted her. But that wouldn’t necessarily preclude contact with Steven; it merely calls into question how much you can trust her. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement I will be honest, I don’t see any malicious intent in your MIL’s actions (unless there is some backstory you haven’t included here). Lots of caretakers, including grandparents and parents, have napped while watching a child, either by accident (toddlers are exhausting) or as intentional concurrent nap time. Maybe Brooke intentionally had a snooze, assuming she’d wake up when Steven did. It probably didn’t occur to her that he would try to go on a walkabout. To me, all of that is reasonable, and I’m not sure that a grandma deserves to be eternally frozen out for it. So I think you need to be sure you understand exactly what happened and allow for the possibility that a lot of this can be chalked up to an honest mistake. Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. You should also be clear about why you think your family should pause all contact with Brooke. Are you punishing her for napping, or are you mad about her lack of honesty? That might be where you and your husband are having your miscommunication. If the latter, I think it’s perfectly reasonable to take some time to cool down before you resume seeing her—this may or may not include your husband and son. If it’s for napping, I would ask: What does punishing solve? Sometimes accidents are so terrifying, and make us feel so powerless, that we want to hold someone or something accountable—because then these things don’t seem so arbitrary. “This scary thing happened because so-and-so did X” gives us a place to put the blame—a reason an accident happened. Conversely, “This scary thing happened, and it was a fluke and it could happen again at any time” feels a lot more random and unsettling to contend with. You and your husband need to unpack exactly how each of you feels about this situation, and think really carefully and honestly about whether you’re trying to punish or prevent tragedy. Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Nicole Chung I Finally Divorced My Horrible Ex. Now Our Kids Are Mimicking His Worst Quality. Read More While you have those conversations, though, be sure you are taking your own precautions so that little Steven doesn’t get out again. Think high-placed locks on the doors, door alarms that will alert you when one is open, etc. If he is ever interested in a repeat performance, you want to be ready, no matter who is at home with him. Good luck. —Allison More Advice From Slate I can’t seem to stop obsessing over my 8-year-old daughter’s abysmal social life. I realize that this has more to do with me than her, and I am working on addressing my anxiety, but that will not help my daughter. To give you a sense of her, she’s funny, sweet, passionate, silly. She can also be a bit imperious (she likes to be right), easily embarrassed (so it’s hard for her to put herself out there and she can shut down pretty quickly), and is learning more slowly than she should about not invading others’ personal spaces (I think she tries approximating intimacy by sitting close to other kids or putting her arm around them and doesn’t seem to notice when they do not like it). Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Family Parenting Slate Plus Advertisement