The Supreme Court Just Signaled Something Deeply Disturbing About the Next Term
Jurisprudence The Supreme Court Just Signaled Something Deeply Disturbing About the Next Term By Richard L. Hasen Aug 04, 20255:59 AM Supreme Court Associate Justices Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas at the inauguration in Washington on Jan. 20. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis, criticism, and advice out there, delivered to your inbox daily. Reading the tea leaves from cryptic Supreme Court orders can be perilous business because the justices are not bound by the questions they ask at oral argument, the offhand comments they make at a judicial conference, or even their monumental “shadow docket” rulings on emergency petitions that have become all too common. But a technical briefing order in a long pending case out of Louisiana, posted on the court’s website after 5 p.m. on a Friday in August, was ominous. The order was likely intended to obscure that SCOTUS is ready to consider striking down the last remaining pillar of the Voting Rights Act, known as Section 2. Such a monumental ruling, likely not coming until June 2026, would change the nature of congressional, state, and local elections all across the country, and likely stir major civil rights protests as the midterm election season heats up. Louisiana v. Callais, the case that was the subject of last Friday’s order, is a voting case over the drawing of the state’s six congressional districts. Louisiana has a one-third Black population, but after the 2020 census the state Legislature drew a districting plan, passed over a Democratic governor’s veto, that created only one district in which Black voters would be likely to elect their candidate of choice. Before Callais, Black voters had successfully sued Louisiana in a case called Robinson v. Ardoin, arguing that Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act required drawing a second congressional district giving Black voters that opportunity. Section 2 says minority voters should have the same chance as other voters to elect their candidates of choice, and courts have long used it to require new districts when there is a large and cohesive minority population concentrated in a given area, when white and minority voters choose different candidates, and when the minority has difficulty electing its preferred representatives. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement After Robinson and more litigation, the Louisiana Legislature drew up a new plan, which created the second congressional district. The state drew the second district to otherwise favor Republicans in the state overall, including House Speaker Mike Johnson. A new group of voters then sued in the Callais case, arguing that Louisiana’s drawing of the second district violated the U.S. Constitution’s equal protection clause by being a racial gerrymander. Since 1993’s Shaw v. Reno, the Supreme Court has found racial gerrymanders when race is the central factor in drawing district lines and the state has no compelling interest in drawing such lines. When the court first held oral argument in the Callais case in March, it appeared to be another in a long series of cases (many out of Louisiana) in which the justices considered whether race or partisanship predominated in the drawing of district lines. I’ve long written that this is an impossible exercise in places like Louisiana, where the factors overlap—most white voters in the state are Republicans and Black voters are Democrats, so when the state discriminates against Democrats, it is also discriminating against Black voters. It appeared from the initial March oral argument that the court was going to once again determine whether race or party predominated. Advertisement Advertisement But instead of deciding the case at the end of June, when the court ordinarily disposes of the cases heard during the term, the court set the case up for reargument. That’s a rare move, but it’s not unheard of. Back in 2010, SCOTUS set the Citizens United case up for reargument the following September. But when the court issued its June order in Citizens United for reargument, the same order informed the parties that the court wanted something new to be briefed and argued on reargument: whether to overrule a line of cases allowing limits on corporate spending in elections. The court the following January then overruled these cases in one of the most consequential election law decisions of our time. It has had significant reverberations for our politics ever since. Advertisement Fifteen years later, something similar seems to be happening with Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act. In June of this year, rather than deciding the case it heard in March, the court issued an order in Callais setting the case for reargument and stating, “In due course, the Court will issue an order scheduling argument and specifying any additional questions to be addressed in supplemental briefing.” Justice Clarence Thomas impatiently dissented from the order, saying that this was the time to recognize that Section 2 of the VRA and the court’s racial gerrymandering case are on a collision course and to kill off Section 2 or rewrite it to be toothless. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement We waited weeks for the court to issue its rescheduling order, and when it came Friday, it was a doozy. The court pointed specifically to a set of pages in plaintiffs’ brief that argue that Section 2 is unconstitutional, at least as applied in this case, and that the VRA cannot serve as a compelling interest to defeat a racial gerrymandering claim when race predominates. “The parties are directed to file supplemental briefs addressing the following question raised [in that brief]: Whether the State’s intentional creation of a second majority-minority congressional district violates the Fourteenth or Fifteenth Amendments to the U. S. Constitution.” Related From Slate Mark Joseph Stern The Trump Administration Got Caught Lying to the Supreme Court Again Read More Although the order did not explicitly mention Section 2 or even the Voting Rights Act more generally—unquestionably to obscure things further—there is no doubting what’s going on here. The court is asking the parties to consider whether Louisiana’s compliance with Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act by drawing a second majority-minority district—as the earlier Ardoin case seemed to require—is unconstitutional under a view of the Constitution as requiring colorblindness. Advertisement If the Supreme Court moves forward with this interpretation, it would be a sea change to voting rights law. A reading of the Constitution as forbidding race-conscious districting as mandated by Congress to deal with centuries of race discrimination in voting is at odds with the text of the Constitution, with the powers granted directly to Congress to enforce the 14th and 15th amendments, and at odds with numerous precedents of the court itself. It would end what has been the most successful way that Black and other minority voters have gotten fair representation in Congress, state legislatures, and local bodies. It would be an earthquake in politics and make our legislative bodies whiter and our protection for minority voters greatly diminished. Even if the court less drastically says that Section 2 cannot be used to require the second congressional district in this case, such a superficially more minimal ruling would mean the quick unraveling of most Section 2 districts, because if the facts in Louisiana don’t justify drawing a second district, most other Section 2 claims would fail too. Advertisement Advertisement Popular in News & Politics This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Bad News for Trump’s Nobel Peace Prize Ambitions Think You’re Smarter Than a Slate Features Editor? Find Out With This Week’s News Quiz. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only One Thing Made This Week’s Execution in Tennessee Particularly Horrific This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Trump Is Asking the Supreme Court to Bless Stephen Miller’s Racial Profiling A ruling killing or hobbling Section 2 would be in line with what we have come to expect from the Roberts court. Back in 2013, the justices struck down as unconstitutional the other main pillar of the Voting Rights Act, which required that jurisdictions with a history of race discrimination in voting get federal approval before making changes in voting laws that could decrease minority voting power. In the Shelby County decision, holding that the formula for deciding which jurisdictions must get preclearance was outdated, Chief Justice John Roberts left open the possibility that Congress could write a new formula, knowing full well that it wouldn’t be able to generate one that would satisfy a majority in Congress and the Supreme Court. He further assured us, “Our decision in no way affects the permanent, nationwide ban on racial discrimination in voting found in § 2.” And now that second pillar could well fall too. Court conservatives likely thought teeing up the issue of overruling Section 2 on a hot summer weekend would avoid public notice. But that’s a short-term strategy. Come next June, any decision to strike down what’s left of the Voting Rights Act could kick off the start of a new civil rights movement and more serious talk of Supreme Court reform in the midst of crucially important midterm elections. Justices fundamentally hostile to the rights of voters place the court increasingly at odds with democracy itself. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Jurisprudence Supreme Court Voting Voting Rights Clarence Thomas John Roberts Judiciary Advertisement