Money Travels Answering the Big Baggage Question
Slate Money Aug 04, 20255:00 AM Money Travels: The Eternal Baggage Question Should you check your bag or carry-on? A discussion. Copy Link Share Share View Transcript Advertisement Listen & Subscribe Choose your preferred player: Apple Podcasts Spotify Amazon Music TuneIn Pocket Casts RSS Feed For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. All Slate Plus Podcasts Get Your Slate Plus Podcast If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a valid phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the podcast in your app: Text me the link! We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up manually: How does this work? copy copied! We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer, click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed, check our FAQ. Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Episode Notes In this special episode of Slate Money Travels, Felix Salmon, Emily Peck and Elizabeth Spiers discuss the constant question on travelers’ minds: should you check your bag? They dig into how to make your carry-on count, the beauty of Air Tags, and Felix offers an alternative to checking a bag that isn’t a carry on. Want to hear that discussion and hear more Slate Money? Join Slate Plus to unlock weekly bonus episodes. Plus, you’ll access ad-free listening across all your favorite Slate podcasts. You can subscribe directly from the Slate Money show page on Apple Podcasts and Spotify. Or, visit slate.com/moneyplus to get access wherever you listen. Podcast production by Cheyna Roth. Copy Link Share Share Travel Finance Advertisement About the Show A weekly roundup of the most important stories from the worlds of business and finance, hosted by Felix Salmon, Emily Peck, and Elizabeth Spiers. All episodes Hosts Emily Peck is the co-host of Slate Money and a markets correspondent for Axios. Felix Salmon is a host of the Slate Money podcast. Elizabeth Spiers is Slate’s Pay Dirt columnist. She was the founding editor of Gawker and the former editor in chief of the New York Observer. Prior to Gawker, she was a financial analyst.