Is the Activity Grind Worth What It Costs
Care and Feeding Aug 04, 20253:10 AM How Busy Is Too Busy? Slate’s parenting podcast on keeping family time sacred amid endless activities. Copy Link Share Share View Transcript Advertisement Listen & Subscribe Choose your preferred player: Apple Podcasts Spotify TuneIn Pocket Casts RSS Feed For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ. Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds. All Slate Plus Podcasts Get Your Slate Plus Podcast If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support. Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed. Please enter a valid phone number. Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the podcast in your app: Text me the link! We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam. Listen on your computer: Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time. Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on. Set up manually: How does this work? copy copied! We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer, click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed, check our FAQ. Loading... We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help. Episode Notes On this episode: Elizabeth, Zak, and Jamilah respond to a listener’s question about how families handle the growing demands on kids’ time—and how working parents try to protect space for rest, school, and family connection. Then, they’ll circle up for a round of check-ins, sharing wins, struggles, and the everyday chaos of balancing life. If you’re not part of the Slate Plus community, we hope you’ll consider joining! Keep reading to learn how. Join us on Facebook and email us at careandfeedingpod@slate.com to ask questions, share feedback, and suggest future topics. You can also call our phone line: (646) 357-9318. If you enjoy this show, please consider signing up for Slate Plus. Slate Plus members get an extra weekly grab-bag of content on the Plus Playground, an ad-free experience across the network, and support the work we do here on Care and Feeding. Sign up now at slate.com/careplus — or try it out on Apple Podcasts. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Bonus Episode Plus Playground: Low-Lift Wins for Long Summer Days A Slate Plus premium segment on how to stay sane during the long summer days. Copy Link Share Share Child Care Children Parenting Advertisement About the Show Jamilah Lemieux, Lucy Lopez, Elizabeth Newcamp, and Zak Rosen share triumphs and fails and offer advice on parenting kids from toddler to teens. All episodes Hosts Zak Rosen is the host of The Best Advice Show. He also produces and edits How to Survive the End of the World. He lives in Detroit with his wife and two young kids (and very large dog, Rumi). Jamilah Lemieux is a writer, cultural critic, and communications strategist based in L.A. Elizabeth Newcamp is a co-host of Care and Feeding. She's a traveling mother of three boys who chronicles her misadventures at Dutch, Dutch, Goose.