The Gilded Age Just Aired Its Best Episode Yet
Television The Gilded Age Just Aired Its Best Episode Yet HBO’s period drama has become … great? By David Mack Aug 03, 202510:30 PM HBO Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment This article contains spoilers for Season 3, Episode 7 of The Gilded Age. For a series once derided as “tedious,” “boring,” and a “meandering, small, plot-starved, confused, and self-important show featuring a bunch of characters whose names I never learned” (OK, yes, all these criticisms of the first season came from me), I am positively living for this season of HBO’s The Gilded Age. It’s finally good! Things are happening! And it just aired one of its best and most moving episodes to date! For me, the most shocking moment in Sunday night’s episode wasn’t the gun that went off right before the credits rolled. It wasn’t the meddling of Elizabeth Kirkland (Phylicia Rashad) that’s now threatening to end the romance between her doctor son, William (Jordan Donica), and Peggy Scott (Denée Benton). And it wasn’t that Bertha Russell (Carrie Coon) and her unyielding ambition seem finally to have pushed away the very family she’s been trying so hard to socially elevate. Instead, I found myself holding my breath barely 15 minutes in, during a scene in which, perhaps for the first time ever, the Van Rhijns’ dark and stuffy household was almost set ablaze with truth. Bereft at the death of his lover and financial savior John Adams (Claybourne Elder), Oscar (Blake Ritson) seems finally to buckle under the weight of the closet, breaking down before his family. He’s been left a home by John, but can’t say why without divulging the full depths of their relationship. He can grieve his dead beloved, but not too openly. When he attended John’s funeral, he made himself sit in the back pew “like a stranger who had walked in to get out of the rain,” instead of in his “rightful place” up front. Oscar is on the verge of tears when his confused mother Agnes (Christine Baranski) queries why he would be the beneficiary of such a generous estate gift. He can only say that he and John were friends—hitting that word with an angry sarcasm that elicits a shocked and knowing gasp from cousin Marian (Louisa Jacobson), who immediately looks to Agnes. “I’m sure you don’t want to hear that I miss him,” Oscar screams. “Oscar! What is all of this about?” a shaken Agnes asks. “Do you really want to know, Mama?” says Oscar, looking exhausted by a secret he has carried all his life. Although Marian and Aunt Ada (Cynthia Nixon) try to explain away Oscar’s grief in more palatable terms, her son’s raw love for John sends Agnes into a shellshocked silence for perhaps the first time in her life. Everyone in the room seems to have understood what just happened, but no one can openly say so. It’s as close to a coming-out scene as we are likely to see on this 1890s-set period drama. It’s also a fiery example of what’s made this season of The Gilded Age so much stronger than the two prior, as long-simmering inequities finally explode into view. Not even Agnes can pretend to be blind to them anymore. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate David Mack HBO’s Most Ludicrous Show Is Inching Closer to Being Actually Good Television Read More So much of this season of The Gilded Age has been concerned with exploring prejudice—how it spreads and is sustained, who benefits from it, and who suffers. And, as he did through the inclusion of closeted footman character of Thomas in Downton Abbey, creator Julian Fellowes had set up from the beginning, through our introduction to Oscar and John in the earliest days of The Gilded Age, evidence that he views LGBTQ discrimination as something worth exploring in these upstairs-downstairs dramas. Like others in the show, Oscar is forced into playing by a set of social rules he had no say in writing. Yet the prejudice Oscar faces as a closeted gay man is different from that faced by those around him. Like Peggy, he has no control over something that is manifestly part of who he is, but, unlike Peggy and the racism she must endure as a Black woman, he has the option to try to conceal his secret and carry on undetected. Like the newly divorced Aurora Fane (Kelli O’Hara), Oscar faces the potential of social exclusion over his love life, but unlike her, his love life is something that cannot even be discussed, let alone debated. Oscar’s burden is a quieter one, which is what makes it so lonely and sad. Advertisement Advertisement Much of Oscar’s problem is, of course, a product of his time. In his 1994 book Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890–1940, historian George Chauncey explores what he describes as the “extensive, organized, and highly visible gay world” that had started to form by the era that The Gilded Age takes place in, including the debaucherous nightclubs we get a brief glimpse of in Episode 5 of this season, where Larry Russell (Harry Richardson) takes the newly rich clock-inventor Jack Trotter (Ben Ahlers) to enjoy “women, drinking, entertainment”—and “men, if you fancy.” But, in his book, Chauncey also makes clear that this burgeoning gay subculture was, by virtue of its confinement to the saloons of the rough Bowery area in Manhattan, patterned on working-class culture, meaning vice and immorality became ideologically associated with the poor. Oscar and his class may have held the money, but it was used to build something of a prison for them—or, in his case, a closet. Advertisement Advertisement Other gay characters have been seen on The Gilded Age. Last season, a foppish Oscar Wilde appeared for one episode, while the likely queer painter John Singer Sargent (played by Bobby Steggert) was glimpsed early on this season working on a portrait of young Gladys Russell (Taissa Farmiga). Most notably, Nathan Lane has been chewing the scenery for years as Ward McAllister, the campish BFF to Mrs. Astor (Donna Murphy), who it seems has now pulled a Truman Capote by publishing a dishy book that has alienated his collection of swans. Advertisement Advertisement Those players aside, though, Oscar and John have been the only two clearly gay men to be explored in any real detail on the show. Since the series premiere, Oscar in particular has evolved, from a scheming villain type intent on wooing Gladys solely for her money to a pitiable sap deceived out of his own fortune by the con artist Maud Beaton (Nicole Brydon Bloom). But in that time, Oscar has also grown, showing real compassion for Maud in the prior episode when he finds her still struggling to make ends meet through sex work. “The deception was mutual,” John tells him in that episode, in a moment that prompts a flash of self-reflection about the cruelty of the so-called lavender marriages these men were expected to fall into. “She may have stolen your money, but if you had married her you would have stolen her entire life.” Advertisement Part of the reason the Episode 7 Van Rhijn scene spoke so much to me was no doubt from the strength of the acting, including that of Jacobson, a marked improvement from her earlier performances of Marian that I’ve previously been critical of. When, following the blowup, she ascends to Oscar’s room to comfort him, share her knowing understanding of the relationship between him and John, and assure her cousin that she’ll stick with him, it’s a genuinely moving moment. It also mirrors the compassion and discretion shown to Oscar in an earlier scene by John’s sister, Nancy (Kate Baldwin). Advertisement Advertisement Still, the real heavy lifting is done by Ritson and Baranski, and with great aplomb. His burning exasperation in the scene is counterbalanced perfectly by her defaulting to a nervous rigidity. It’s some of the quietest, but best, acting we’ve seen from Baranski on the series to date—perhaps in part because it’s among the only times we’ve ever seen her genuinely shaken and without some pithy barb ready to deploy. Unlike other moments in which Agnes seems stunned by some mild social mistake, here she is truly unsure of what to do or say. That’s because, on some level, she does seem to understand what her son is finally saying to her without the need for him to actually say it. Of course she does—she’s his mother. Advertisement Agnes has become a more curious character over time. When we first met her, she was (and still mostly is) among the characters most attached to the unbending ways of the Old World. But that’s changing slowly. She does seem slightly more compassionate than Mrs. Astor to the situation that poor Aurora Fane has found herself in through no fault of her own, and she’s also been progressive enough to not only hire a Black secretary but invite her parents into her home. Still, it was in one of those conversations in Episode 2 with Peggy’s parents that Arthur Scott (John Douglas Thompson) confronts Agnes about her apparent shock that her family doctor would refuse to treat Peggy on account of her race. “Why would you be stunned?” he asks her. “You’re a wise woman. You know how the world works.” It’s true, Agnes silently concedes. And if she’s not naive when it comes to her secretary, then she’s certainly not when it comes to her son. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate J. Bryan Lowder Netflix’s Dreamiest Show Comes to an End. It’s Worth One Final Look, Even With the Shadow Hanging Over It. Read More Popular in Culture He Made a Joke So Racist Even Trump Rejected It. Now He’s the Most Powerful Comic in America. It’s Raining Dildos on WNBA Courts. You’ll Never Believe Who’s to Blame. Wednesday’s First Season Had Some Problems. Its Second Finds a Neat Solution. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only We Officially Have the New SNL of the Trump Era I think why I ultimately found the scene so moving is because it’s a glimpse of the complex yet profound relationship between mothers and sons—queer sons, in particular. These women can often be the first to sense something different about their boys. I’m sure my own mother was. Perhaps it’s their sensitivity or creativity. Perhaps it’s just the odd mannerism or two. Often, they know before their sons do. While the closet may be a very real prison built on prejudice, it can also often be one made of glass: While you may not be able to come out, others who dare—or care—to look can see straight in. It’ll be almost another century before more men like Oscar can start to come out more freely and hope for a warmer reaction from their mothers than the one that he received. But even in 1890, there’s no doubt that Agnes loves Oscar. She made that clear when she recounted to the Scotts how she almost lost him to typhoid as a child. As viewers, we can only hope that she—and society— are carried forward by this same ancient and instinctive love that’s powered countless mothers and sons since. “She probably won’t change her ways, but she might,” John told Oscar in one of their last moments together in an exchange that was about Maud, but could just as easily apply to Agnes. “And if she does, it’ll be you she has to thank.” Get the best of culture Get the best of movies, TV, books, music, and more. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Culture newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment HBO TV LGBTQ+ Advertisement