My Husband Thinks His Nighttime Nuisance Is a “Funny” Game. I Hate It.
How to Do It My Husband Thinks His Nighttime Nuisance Is a “Funny” Game. I Hate It. This needs to stop. Advice by Rich Juzwiak Aug 03, 202512:00 PM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment How to Do It is Slate’s sex advice column. Have a question? Send it to Jessica and Rich here. It’s anonymous! Dear How to Do It, My husband will jerk off when I’m too tired for sex. I’m an incredibly sound sleeper, so having him do it in the bed next to me isn’t a problem, save for one thing: His idea of a “joke” is to finish by taking my hand and coming into it and then waking me up so I can see what he left for me. He thinks this is the funniest thing in the world. I do not. I find it gross and disruptive to have to get up and wash my hand, and there has been more than one occasion where it’s gotten on the sheets, which means having to change those as well. His reaction to my telling him I don’t like this is that I need to “find the funny.” Short of sleeping in our guest room, what can I do about this? —Penis Pranked and Pissed Dear Penis Pranked and Pissed, I’m with you. This is definitely gross and violates your consent. If he did something even slightly similar to a stranger, it’d result in a lawsuit. If he did it to a co-worker, he’d lose his job (and probably also get sued). I understand that amongst partners, there can exist a special comfort level, though, and you don’t report feeling violated. Far be it from me to foist that experience onto you—this is just to put his behavior into perspective. You telling him that you don’t like this is letting him off easy. What I find the most galling, though, is that he’s waking you up. Handful of cum or not, that’s a dick move. It’s torturous, even. If you’re a heavy sleeper, falling back to sleep may not cause you problems, but it’s still so wrong to disrupt someone’s sleep without a legitimate reason. If the house is on fire, fine. Ejaculation, which the vast majority of the sexually functioning male population is fully capable of doing, is not cause for rousing. And I say this as a semen enthusiast! If someone was going to wake me up because he just came, that load better be way bigger than a handful. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement What can you do about this? Dig in your heels. Don’t forgive and forget so easily. Let your irritation linger beyond the conversation about his nighttime gift. Hold it against him for a bit. Show him that you will not be “finding the funny” in this. Tell him that you don’t appreciate being woken up because he jerked off again. It’s about as immature as him showing you the emptied contents of his bowels in a toilet bowl. Alternatively, you could lean into this. Tell him it’s a turn on and that you admire his loads, but you’d prefer that he share them with you in waking hours, when you can actually appreciate them. Ask him to video/photo his load so that he can show you in the morning, when you can really appreciate it. Does he deserve such flattery? Probably not, but at least if this method works, it will get him off your back and leave your rest uninterrupted. Advertisement Get sex advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear How to Do It,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to How to Do It following up) Submit Dear How to Do It, My husband always falls asleep within 10 minutes of when we finish having sex. I find this extremely off-putting, as to me it seems to say, “I got what I needed and now have no further use for you.” He says he’s just tired. I think he’s being selfish. Thoughts? —Feeling Used Advertisement Dear Feeling Used, Before you write off your husband as an inconsiderate jerk, though he may well deserve it, you should at least contend with the underlying biology of the situation. As a result of ejaculation, men release prolactin, which can lead to sleepiness. Women do too but less of it, which is why the content of your letter is a tale as old as time. A more recent development, though, via a pair of studies published in 2014, is that the duration of postcoital affection with one’s partner is associated with sexual satisfaction and relationship satisfaction. So even if your husband isn’t using you and intentionally conking out after sex to show you how little you mean to him, even if he’s just honestly sleepy, it behooves him to connect with you then. Advertisement Advertisement This could be as easy as just trying and not letting sleep completely take over. “I do encourage male partners to at least attempt a little bit of cuddling,” said one sex therapist in a CNN piece on this topic. One suggestion: After sex, he should try turning toward you and cuddling for as long as he can. “Sometimes just rolling toward (as opposed to over) and sweetly telling your partner how much you care about them while holding them in a spooning position can be just enough to make them feel connected,” said the therapist, Emily Jamea. This Men’s Health piece also contains a few tips: Keep the lights on and pick a sex position that doesn’t involve lying down, particularly not one where he’s on his back, which can prime him for sleep. Advertisement Advertisement You should also take a more general stock—is your husband typically inconsiderate? Does he make you feel used in other areas in the relationship? If not, it’ll probably be a lot easier for you to trust that his post-sex snoozing has more to do with his internal mechanism than it is a reflection of ill feelings toward you. If he is inconsiderate and prone to making you feel used, well, sex is the canary in the coal mine here, and you have a more general issue to address. But hopefully, he’s generally a good guy who has been doing something that you are interpreting as selfish. You could ease up a little bit, and he could try harder. If you both put effort in, you may both end up feeling satisfied. Advertisement Send Us Your Questions About the Workplace! The columnists behind our new advice column, Good Job, want to help you navigate your social dynamics at work. Does your colleague constantly bug you after hours? Has an ill-advised work romance gone awry? Ask us your question here! Advertisement Dear How to Do It, My marriage often feels complicated, and over the two decades we’ve been together, my husband, “Patrick,” and I have worked through a lot of issues. We are good friends and parents, but our sex life is dead. Advertisement It has died over the years as I’ve had to isolate myself emotionally. Patrick has struggled with resentment and narcissistic traits and has a bad relationship with his family. I’ve also had to become the sole breadwinner over the past several years since he’s now disabled with a brain injury (though you wouldn’t know it when you meet him). It’s a lot, plus we have kids at home. Advertisement I would like to have a sex life, but we are both so emotionally burnt and have so much baggage that I have an impossible time connecting with him on an emotional level. Is it time to give up and accept that it is what it is? I am still attracted to men and can get aroused. Any last straw ideas on how to reignite some spark? —Sentenced to Solitude Dear Sentenced to Solitude, What does giving up actually mean here? Are you giving up the dream of things magically falling back into place and reigniting a sexual relationship with Patrick? Or would you be giving up efforts to create that spark, which you are in the process of undergoing and clearly failing at? Most of us could be doing more, period, but of course, we can reach a point of exhaustion. Have you actually troubleshooted and focused specifically on the sexual aspect of your relationship? Have you gone to couples counseling? Read Mating in Captivity and followed its guidance to creating more space between you and your partner that can result in an erotic charge? Had conversations with your husband about your lack of sex and how it affects you both? Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Rich Juzwiak I Went to My Husband’s Theater Performance. I Was Completely Taken Aback By What He Does on Stage. Read More Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. Maybe these options aren’t compatible with your decision to emotionally isolate. But neither is reconnecting with your husband on a sexual level, in all likelihood. It sounds like you did what you needed to do there. Therapy could help provide you with alternate pathways to connection. You could also try playing with the lack of connection and create scenarios that allow you and your husband to have the kind of fast and detached sex that can occur between strangers, but that seems like a potential logistical challenge as well, given all the baggage. Plus, coordinating a role-playing scenario in which you relate like actual strangers would require communication and, yep, connection. You do have the option of opening up. That could allow you to maintain your friendship and co-parenting dynamic while giving you the opportunity to explore sex elsewhere. Once again, the problem there is your lack of connection—ethical non-monogamy tends to require communication in order for its participants to feel safe and satisfied. Now, there are people in don’t-ask-don’t-tell arrangements, and that can have a kind of set-it-and-forget-it format (you have one conversation about opening up, you open up, no more questions asked), but coordinating can be tough if you aren’t speaking about the openness. At minimum, I would at least float this option during a much-needed conversation between you two about the state of your marriage. See if your husband has any ideas he’s been sitting on, and try to be patient with him. It can be hard, but you’re not going to solve this (or even move on from it) without effort. —Rich More Advice From Slate My boyfriend just asked me if he could send me snippets of porn he watches to show me what he wants me to do to him in bed. I feel slighted by this, because I already try to do things that I would otherwise not do already to keep him happy. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Sex Advertisement