It’s One of the Most Revolting Bad Habits a Person Can Have. The Solution Is Just as Weird.
Life Pick Me Up I had a revolting, very common bad habit. Then I tried an even weirder solution. By Heather Schwedel Follow Heather Signed Up For Email Alerts Error Signing Up For Email Alerts Close Enter your email to receive alerts for this author. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the https://my.sailthru.com/list?list=aa_heather_schwedel newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Sign Up By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign in or create an account to better manage your email preferences. Close Unsubscribe from email alerts Are you sure you want to unsubscribe from email alerts for Heather Schwedel? Yes, unsubscribe Aug 03, 202510:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photos by Getty Images Plus and Picky Pads/Five Below. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis, criticism, and advice out there, delivered to your inbox daily. I’d like to make an important announcement: I am no longer the type of person who misses crucial plot developments on TV shows because I’m only half-watching while I scroll on my phone. No, I have ascended to a slightly higher plane of existence where now if I miss an important plot point on a show, it’s more likely to be because I was busy trying to wrench an especially pesky bead out of its position in my picky pad. Unless you happen to be in the midst of trying to kick the same revolting habit I am, you may not have heard of picky pads, so allow me to explain : A picky pad is a rubbery blob with a bunch of little beads and baubles embedded in it that is designed to be destroyed, leaving in its wake a satisfying pile of beads and a desiccated pad that retains the outlines of the shapes you’ve removed from it. What purpose could such a thing possibly serve? It’s what’s called a “sensory toy”—a category that also includes fidget spinners and other fidget toys—for people who pick at their skin. The hope is that picking at it will distract those who are so tempted from picking at themselves. If the idea of digging junk out of a funny little disk doesn’t instantly appeal to you, consider yourself lucky—you must not be in possession of the picking gene, or whatever it is that curses those of us afflicted with it, to forever be futzing with our skin. Compulsive skin-picking, also known as dermatillomania, is what’s called a body-focused repetitive behavior. One study estimated that 1.4 percent of the population may suffer from it; others have suggested that number is even higher. I’ve never been formally diagnosed with dermatillomania, but for whatever reason (OK, I can probably think of a few), it’s gotten really bad for me over the last year. It’s progressed past pimples and hangnails—the most socially forgivable picking sites—to places like my scalp and my feet. I’m not sure there’s any shame quite like the shame of dutifully transferring a random pile of skin I’ve picked off into my hand to throw it out. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Anyway, I needed help. Around the time I realized this, I started seeing picky pads in ads and on social media. They’re a relatively new product—people in the skin-picking community told me they’ve only been seeing them for a few years—but they seem to be spreading quickly: They’re for sale for anywhere between a few bucks and $20 or so at online storefronts, on Etsy, and at more conventional retailers like Five Below, and they’re available in an astoundingly wide array of styles: They can come shaped like a heart or a skull, but they can also be themed around things like coffee or ’80s nostalgia or, er, true crime. Some are so beautiful and intricate they seem a shame to ruin. I’ve even seen ones where the elements you excavate from them are a collection of tiny Lego-like pieces that you’re then meant to reconstruct into a Pikachu figurine—I’m serious. And then some of them are more literal: If you’re prone to picking at blemishes, perhaps you’d be interested in a flesh-colored picky pad containing black beads designed to remind you of popping blackheads. (Sorry.) Advertisement Never let it be said that skin pickers aren’t resourceful, because they’ve been DIY-ing lower-fi versions for years, with ingredients like birdseed and Silly Putty. “I have been a picker my whole life,” Jamie Van Nuys, a 35-year-old recent law school graduate who lives in Minnesota and sells her own picky pads on Etsy, told me recently over the phone. She knows skin-picking is hard to understand if you don’t do it. “Every time I go to the nail salon, they’re like, ‘You should just stop doing that.’ And like, ‘Oh, I know. Thank you for your help.’ ” Treatment can mitigate picking, but there’s no one magic-bullet cure. “Gosh, I have done so many things to try and stop the urge to pick,” Van Nuys said. “I have done the bitter-tasting nail polish. I’ve done therapy. I have asked God to help me stop picking.” Then, last year, she got her first picky pad. She liked it, but she was a crafter herself, and thought she could do better. She started experimenting with materials and methods: “It was a little bit of a trial and error of what I felt simulated skin the best,” she told me. Before long, she was selling her own designs on Etsy. Her timing was fortuitous: Picky pads just so happened to be enjoying a wave of virality online in mid-2024. Orders poured in, once going as high as $10,000 worth in a single day, she told me. Sales have slowed since then, and Van Nuys said she now brings in $3,000 or $4,000 a month. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement So what is it like to actually use one? One thing I figured out very quickly is how easy it is to pick some pads clean in an astonishingly short amount of time. Anything with big beads? Forget it; you’re lucky if you get an hour out of that. Because of this, many sellers offer reuseable picky pads that can be re-melted in the microwave, but you’ve got to be pretty crafty and generally OK with weird chemical smells to make this work for you. For some people, a better option might be a bigger pad with smaller beads that you can chip away at over time. For me, this presented its own set of problems: The smaller the beads, the more arthritic they will make your hands feel, and the more you will wonder why something that’s supposed to be satisfying feels so suspiciously like work. Advertisement Lauren McKeaney, the 38-year-old, Chicago-based founder and CEO of the Picking Me Foundation, a dermatillomania nonprofit organization, told me that she thinks one appeal of picky pads is that they offer an “accomplishment-based moment”: “I find a lot of us skin pickers are looking for that,” she said. She first started hearing about picky pads a few years ago, though never let it be said that skin pickers aren’t resourceful, because they’ve been DIY-ing lower-fi versions for years, involving ingredients like birdseed and Silly Putty. Still, it took McKeaney time to find the right picky pads for her, because bizarre as it might sound, everyone has slightly different taste in what they like to pick. Related From Slate Heather Schwedel I Thought Vibration Plates Were a Total Scam. Then I Tried One for a Month. Read More “There’s kind of a sensory hunt you can go on to find the one that you like,” she said. Some outlets, like pickypads.co, provide graphics to help customers decipher where on the scale from popping to picking to digging particular products fall, and they also share where different pads fall on the spectrum from easy to tricky. Everyone’s got preferences! When I told Van Nuys I liked picking the sequins out of the pad I ordered from her, she said that some of her customers are virulently anti-sequin: “Some people are like, ‘Don’t put any sequins in my order ever.’ ” Advertisement Advertisement Popular in Life Slate Crossword: Tress-Gripping Device (Eight Letters) This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Sydney Sweeney Has Caused an Uproar. It Was Always Going to Come to This. Slate Mini Crossword for Aug. 9, 2025 This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only It’s One of the Most Revolting Bad Habits a Person Can Have. The Solution Is Just as Weird. Though I wouldn’t say I’m in love with picky pads, they’ve become a reliable way to keep myself from skin-picking during my evening TV-watching time. That isn’t the only time of day that I feel the urge, so as nice as it is to keep myself from doing it for a few hours, there have also been so many times when I feel like I’ve then gone and undone all my virtuous urge-resisting right after. Talking to McKeaney helped convince me that it’s not nothing to resist for a few hours; every little bit counts. When she first got diagnosed with dermatillomania, “I was hoping for one pill or just one thing that was gonna help me across the board,” she said, but she eventually realized she needed to take a more multifaceted approach. These days, she has other sensory toys beyond picky pads, and employs other strategies to help her, like keeping her bathroom lights dim so her reflection in the mirror doesn’t inspire her to go in on her face. “I talk about giving my fidgets one certain job, one home, one purpose. So maybe this is your TV-watching fidget.” Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement This echoes what Tracie Ibrahim, a therapist at NOCD, an online platform and practice that specializes in treating OCD, told me when I asked her what she thinks of picky pads. She recommends them to some patients, but “it is important to have a variety of things, including things that are free and always available,” she said. “So like, can you do a picky pad while you’re driving? No, you really can’t. Picky pads are for some people. They’re not for everyone, and they certainly shouldn’t be the only thing that you’re doing.” Wise words, and I guess they mean I’m going to have to figure out some other ways of coping with my urges beyond hitting order on another pad. And I will. But if you’ll excuse me, I think I’m going to spend another little while digging for some beads in the meantime. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Internet Internet Culture Mental Health Slate Plus TikTok Advertisement