My Parents Are Begging to Take Care of Our Kids. My Spouse Has a Ridiculous Objection.
Care and Feeding My Parents Are Begging to Take Care of Our Kids. My Spouse Has a Ridiculous Objection. I don’t understand this hesitation. Advice by Michelle Herman Aug 03, 20258:00 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Getty Images Plus. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Care and Feeding is Slate’s parenting advice column. Have a question for Care and Feeding? Submit it here. Dear Care and Feeding, My spouse and I have two kids under 3. We currently have a nanny who is largely good, but we’re unsure if we want to continue our contract with her beyond the current term. (In our area, hiring a nanny is both cheaper and more convenient than daycare.) My parents have said that once the contract with the nanny expires, they would like to provide child care to bridge the time until our older child starts preschool. They provided child care for him before our second child was born, and they’ve credited this as the foundation for the strong bond they have with him today. So where’s the problem in this filled-with-blessings situation? My spouse doesn’t believe my parents truly want to do this, but rather, feel obligated or pressured to. We’d be taking advantage of them, my spouse insists. If you knew my dad, you’d know he doesn’t make an offer he doesn’t mean. How can I structure a productive conversation with my spouse to get at the root of this hesitation? What kinds of questions would you ask? —In a Situation Most Would Envy Dear Situation, I would ask outright: What makes you think this offer is insincere, made under pressure, or otherwise cannot be taken at face value? If your spouse falls back on, “It’s just a feeling I have,” dig deeper. Is it because your parents didn’t make the offer sooner? Whose decision was it, I‘m wondering, to hire a nanny after your second child was born rather than having your parents, who had been watching Baby #1, care for both of them? Did you and your spouse decide that this would be too much for them, or did your parents? Did you talk to them about this before hiring the nanny? If the decision was made because caring for a newborn and a toddler at the same time was too much to ask of them—and I can certainly see why it might have been!—then what keeps you from pointing this out to your spouse and noting that things have changed? Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement If there’s another underlying reason, now’s the time to get that out into the open. Maybe your spouse wasn’t happy, let’s say, with the care your parents provided for your older child, and never told you that (in order to keep the peace perhaps), and is now using “they don’t actually want to do this/we’d be taking advantage of them” as an excuse to say no, sidestepping the real issue. Or perhaps your spouse picked up on something the last time around that you didn’t. You’ll never know until you ask. Directly. As a parent for whom grandparenthood is likely in the not-too-distant future, I’ve made sure that both my daughter and my son-in-law are on the same page about the plan for child care my daughter and I have been talking about for years. It wouldn’t hurt, once you’ve talked to your spouse about what’s really behind these doubts, to sit down with all three parties and hash things out. In my experience, not talking openly about such things (thoughts, feelings, doubts, desires, intentions, hesitations) is what causes problems in families and marriages. Advertisement Get parenting and family advice—submit a question! Please keep questions short (<150 words), and don‘t submit the same question to multiple columns. We are unable to edit or remove questions after publication. Use pseudonyms to maintain anonymity. Your submission may be used in other Slate advice columns and may be edited for publication. Thanks! Your question has been submitted. Dear Care and Feeding,* Your letter signoff Your pronouns Your email (optional and confidential—please include if you're open to Care and Feeding following up) Submit Dear Care and Feeding, I am struggling with crushing nostalgia watching my children get older, and I would love your perspective. I am a parent to two lovely children, ages 4 and 2. When my older child, my son, was 18 months old, I had a short, friendly conversation with a stranger at the park, which concluded with her telling me to “Enjoy, this is the best age.” In the moment, I remember thinking, “I hope that’s not true,” but that sentiment has haunted me. I find it so painful to look back on photos from even a few months ago and see how much my children have changed. Put simply, I loved the baby days. I’m loving the current days too, but there are so many things I miss about having a baby. At one point, I was certain I wanted a third child, but, after a lot of self-reflection, I realized what I truly want is to relive the baby days of the children I already have. I’m afraid this feeling of nostalgia and heartache as they grow up will only intensify. Have you experienced anything like this? Any ideas to help ease this feeling? And please tell me parenting is still joyful even as our little ones get older. —Trying to Stay in the Present Moment Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Dear Present Moment, Sure, I experienced something like this. And I remember clearly the day, when my daughter was 2 ½, that I thought, I need to have another baby!—and my own self-reflection that led me to the same place yours did, as well as to recalling why I had decided to stop at one! I think many parents go through this. Does it reassure you at all to know that now, at the age of 70, my daughter now 32, I miss her babyhood and just as fiercely miss the toddler years, the early school years, and every other phase and stage of her life (with the exception, maybe, of a small portion of her teens, when we were in the eye-rolling-at-everything-I-said phase—which, thankfully, didn’t last long, and I now recall mostly with amusement)? One of the wonderful, extraordinary things about raising a child is that you get to love so many different versions of them as time passes! Not only is each version unique and fascinating—it also holds within it the core of every former version. I sometimes think of my very much grown-up daughter now as having sedimentary layers (and I know each layer so well!). The baby my child was, whom I so adored, is still there, deep within her; so is the 3-year-old singing “It’s the Hard Knock Life” as she pretend-mopped the floor with the toy mop she’d begged for for her birthday (and the 12-year-old belting out Kelly Clarkson songs on her American Idol karaoke machine). I can close my eyes and picture her exactly as she was at 5, hand in hand with her first best friend—and at 15, making music videos to J-pop with the best friend she had then, who is still among her closest friends now. When I’m in Manhattan, sitting across from her at dinner at one of our favorite restaurants, I see her as she is now and as she was then—all those different thens. Advertisement Advertisement Related From Slate Michelle Herman I Finally Found My Happy Place After My Husband Left Me. There’s Just One Problem. Read More You don’t have to “get over” your nostalgia for your babies; you don’t have to put away those memories. The trick is to keep them in perspective, and make sure they don’t take precedence over the children these former babies have become. Enjoy them as they are now, and then hold onto those versions of them too, as these children get older and shed their former skins to make way for the newest versions of themselves. My daughter, as she is right now, is my favorite person in the world. But I will never stop loving all the people she used to be. Parenting can continue to be joyful for as long as you live—I promise. You just need to open yourself up to that ever-changing joy. Send Your Questions to Good Job! Laura Helmuth and Doree Shafrir want to help you navigate your social dynamics at work. Does your colleague constantly bug you after hours? Has an ill-advised work romance gone awry? Ask us your question here! Advertisement Dear Care and Feeding, Popular in Advice My Son Came Home With a “Funny Story” From His Teacher. I’m Not Laughing. I Let My Daughter Move in So She Could “Get Back on Her Feet.” But I Didn’t Sign Up for This. Grandma Was on Camp Pick-Up Duty. I Don’t Know How to Fix What Happened Between Her and My Son. This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Help! My Perpetually Single Friend Is Finally Getting Married. But Her Wedding Demands Are Completely Absurd. My sister and her husband both earn comfortable incomes and are wonderful with my kids and their other nieces and nephews. They are kind and thoughtful people, and any child would be lucky to have them as parents. The problem is that they are in their late 30s and have said they don’t plan on having children. I think they will come to regret this, and by the time they realize their mistake, it will be too late. How can I get them to reconsider? —The Clock is Ticking Advertisement Advertisement Dear Ticking, You can’t—and shouldn’t try to—get them to reconsider. Their decision to remain childfree is theirs to make. It doesn’t matter how good they are with their nieces and nephews; it doesn’t matter what good parents they might be. It doesn’t even matter that you think they’ll regret this decision (nor does it matter that they might indeed regret it). This is simply, and absolutely, none of your business. Stay out of it. Be grateful your kids and their cousins have such a loving aunt and uncle to call their own—not every child is so fortunate. And not everyone wants to be a parent. —Michelle Advertisement Advertisement More Advice From Slate My half sister is 19. I am in my 40s. As you can imagine, we do not have a lot in common, but have always had a pleasant and civil relationship—until last week. My 16-year-old daughter has been begging us to let her get a tattoo for at least a year (in our area, you need an adult guardian’s permission unless you are over 18, which seems completely reasonable to me). She just wants to get the birthdate of her (deceased) little brother on her shoulder blade, which I am, of course, extremely sympathetic to. Never miss new Advice columns The latest sex, parenting, and money advice from our columnists delivered to your inbox three times a week. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the Advice newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Advice Kids Parenting Advertisement