How Four Sensual, Clay-Covered Hands Charted the Course of My Sexuality
Relationships Touched By a Ghost That pottery scene really did a number on me. By Ty Mitchell Aug 02, 202511:30 AM Photo illustration by Slate. Photo by Paramount Pictures. Copy Link Share Share Comment Copy Link Share Share Comment Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis, criticism, and advice out there, delivered to your inbox daily. For a few years of my childhood, I had a stepsister. She didn’t die or anything—she just stopped visiting her father, who eventually divorced my mom. She was about my age, and we must have been 9 or 10 during the period she came to my house: the precise age for a sister to have the pubescent upper hand and act like a complete know-it-all. She wasn’t too bad, though, and I would be remiss not to credit her with one of my earliest sexual awakenings: the pottery wheel scene in Ghost. To the uninitiated, one of the most iconic movie scenes of the ’90s takes place within the first 15 minutes of Ghost. Molly (Demi Moore, in a stunning pixie cut) is seated before a pottery wheel, and her lover (Patrick Swayze in his absolute prime) approaches from behind. After her would-be vase flops over, he leans in close and interlaces his fingers with hers, and with four gently stroking hands, they briefly attempt to salvage the pottery in the most thrilling depiction of clay since Genesis. Moore turns back to kiss Swayze, and the two drift into a string of kisses and caresses— carried through by the Righteous Brothers’ “Unchained Melody.” It is such a masterfully filmed and performed love scene that one disregards the magical hand-washing between shots. Related From Slate Harris Sockel Growing Up, I Didn’t Realize I Was Gay. Then Seven Straight Guys and I Went to Colonial Williamsburg. Read More It is, by all measures, a very tasteful scene—and also a profoundly intimate one. But was that the reason I insisted on rewinding and replaying the scene at least three times? Mind you, this was a VHS, so the rewind was itself a visual replay. My stepsister called me a pervert for holding up the plot with my sudden obsession, to which I replied that all their tumbling around was “funny.” Of course, giggling is just what you do when you are watching sex with company. Still, I was transfixed. I had no language for why, not in my brain or my body. I just wanted to watch them touch. Images from my childhood are beaded with men and boys who turned me on before there was anything to turn. But I’ve never considered Patrick Swayze one of them, even though he was essential to this memory from my nascent sexuality. Instead, I think mostly of their hands, covered in clay, caressing, grazing, grabbing. I suppose this is pretty sapphic for a gay guy, but upon rewatch, the clay is really exquisitely phallic. What I remember most from this scene, though—and what affected me most deeply—was not the specific bodies of Swayze and Moore, but the way they moved upon each other. I was mesmerized by what most sex scenes fail to capture: an ineffable, carnal intimacy composed of touches I’d never seen or felt before. Of course, it’s good that I hadn’t, but it implanted in me a yearning to one day feel them myself. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Popular in Life Slate Crossword: Tress-Gripping Device (Eight Letters) This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only Sydney Sweeney Has Caused an Uproar. It Was Always Going to Come to This. Slate Mini Crossword for Aug. 9, 2025 This Content is Available for Slate Plus members only It’s One of the Most Revolting Bad Habits a Person Can Have. The Solution Is Just as Weird. The other night, I tried to show this scene to a few friends of mine in hopes that it might resonate with them as much as it did me. Alas, they just blinked and asked, “Is that it?” I found myself doubting whether the scene was as sexually potent as I thought. But as shame crept toward me, I remembered how this scene also coincided with being called a pervert for the first time in my life. Although she was just a young girl responding to the discomfort of a new brother’s sexual fixation, the epithet reached deep into me. There was something a bit too true about it—that’s what made the memory root. But her attempts to shame me didn’t work. I hit that Rewind button again and again, giggling wildly. My sexuality watching Ghost was not a libido with an object and direction but an irrepressible curiosity about intimacy and closeness. That fundamental hunger for something truer and deeper would come to define who I am as a queer person, but at the time it was barely beginning to rouse, a beautiful eventuality shaped and molded in Moore’s and Swayze’s passion-clumsy hands. Get the best of news and politics Sign up for Slate's evening newsletter. Thanks for signing up! You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. You're already subscribed to the The Slatest newsletter. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at any time. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again, or manage all your newsletter subscriptions here . Please enable javascript to sign up for newsletters. Email address: Send me updates about Slate special offers. By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms. Sign Up Copy Link Share Share Comment Sex Spark Notes LGBTQ+ Advertisement