CNN Panelist Trounces Scott Jennings During Debate Over Dean Cain Joining ICE
CNN Panelist Trounces Scott Jennings During Debate Over Dean Cain Joining ICE Dean Cain, who starred in the 1990s series "Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman," announced earlier this week that he is joining ICE. By Marco Margaritoff Trends Reporter Aug 8, 2025, 01:13 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Conservative commentator Scott Jennings endured some quick-witted pushback Thursday on CNN for arguing that “a bunch of people” could start to join Immigration and Customs Enforcement — and help round up immigrants — simply because actor Dean Cain announced he will. “Having someone like that out touting it, talking about, ‘Hey, this is a thing you can do for your government, this is a public service,’ it’s going to help them recruit and they have a bunch of people to recruit,” Jennings said on “NewsNight With Abby Phillip.” Advertisement Cain, who played Superman in the 1990s ABC series “Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman,” told Fox News on Wednesday that he’s already a reserve police officer in Idaho. The former television star then announced that he’ll be “sworn in as an ICE agent ASAP.” Jennings joined a burgeoning Republican chorus in touting the news as an invaluable recruitment tool. Guest panelist and podcaster Van Lathan couldn’t help but interrupt, however, and said: “Scott, it’s not ’95. Nobody gives a Sam Hill what Dean Cain does.” “You may not,” replied Jennings, suggesting Cain remains an influential conservative. Lathan went on to suggest some unspoken motivations for Cain joining ICE, which received an enormous funding infusion as a result of the GOP’s so-called Big Beautiful Bill — and has since announced a maximum signing bonus of $50,000 for Americans of all ages. Advertisement “Dean ain’t worked in a while,” Lathan told Jennings. “Dean needs the 50,000. That’s what got Dean off the couch. Dean ain’t worked in a while. Dean’s gonna take that money and buy some crypto [currency] with it. Dean needs the 50 [thousand dollars]. That’s what Dean is on.” Jennings: Having someone like Dean Cain out touting it—It's going to help them recruit. Lathan: It’s not 1995. No one cares what Dean Cain thinks. pic.twitter.com/eInYOEcwQb — Acyn (@Acyn) August 8, 2025 Lathan wasn’t the only suspicious panelist. Even Mediate founder Dan Abrams — who said President Donald Trump’s administration “deserves an enormous amount of credit” for securing the U.S.-Mexico border — dismissed Cain’s role as a PR move. Advertisement “You know, look, it’s like he said: ‘I’m getting sworn in,’ right?” Abrams said Thursday. “When you talk about getting sworn in, he’s not really going to be an ICE agent. I mean, he’s going to go on some ICE raids, he’ll be an honorary member, et cetera.” Jennings noted earlier in the discussion that there’s “a massive amount of recruitment” at ICE because the agency now has “a huge amount of money” to hire new agents. Abrams agreed, but said he hopes the quality of these recruits exceeds that of their current peers. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “I just hope that they have that reasonable suspicion that we’ve been talking about,” he said about ICE agents. “I hope they’re not just going in and grabbing a bunch of people because they happen to be waiting outside the Home Depot looking to earn a living that day.” Advertisement Related CNN immigration and customs enforcement Scott Jennings dean cain Former Superman Actor Dean Cain Joins ICE — And Fans Are Not Having It Trump's Latest 'Bats**t Crazy' Remark Has People Fuming Trump Throws Absolute Fit In Middle-Of-The-Night Meltdown At Ex-GOP Official Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In U.S. News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post