Pete Davidson Reveals 1 ‘Terrible’ Thing About Doing ‘SNL50’
Pete Davidson Reveals 1 ‘Terrible’ Thing About Doing ‘SNL50’ After the comedian shared his gripe, he was swiftly called out by fellow “Saturday Night Live” alum Seth Meyers. By Elyse Wanshel Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 12:52 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Pete Davidson says he was experiencing big downer energy during “SNL50.” The comedian was on “Late Night with Seth Meyers” on Thursday, and during the “Saturday Night Live” alums’ discussion, Davidson had a surprising complaint about participating in the legendary sketch show’s 50th anniversary special in February. Oodles of famous folks were in the studio audience for the event, including Blake Lively, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Miley Cyrus, Pedro Pascal and Tom Hanks. Although some “SNL” alums skipped the star-studded event for valid reasons, plenty did show, like Tina Fey, Eddie Murphy and Martin Short. Advertisement Davidson was featured in two sketches during the special, one live and another pretaped. “What’s more nerve-wracking?” Meyers asked Davidson of the two sketches he did. “Being on stage, or being in the audience [watching a pretaped sketch] while everybody’s watching?” “As you know from SNL40 — terrible audience,” Davidson told Meyers, who agreed. “It’s a terrible audience ’cause it’s just famous people, and famous people only like themselves.” “SNL” alums Laraine Newman and Pete Davidson appear in the pretaped sketch "Chad in 8H" that aired during “SNL50” in February. NBC via Getty Images Advertisement Davidson, a celebrity himself, has dated a string of A-list stars, so some in Meyers’ audience seemed a bit incredulous. But the “Pickup” star immediately included himself in his criticism. “It’s true,” Davidson said. “I’m guilty of this!” At this, Meyers chimed in: “I remember when the pretape was playing, you were the only one laughing.” This prompted Davidson to burst out laughing and give the host a fist bump. “We were like, ‘Oh, he’s coming in way too hot,’” Meyers recalled of everyone’s reaction to Davidson’s delight in watching himself during the special. Advertisement Although Davidson seemed a little bummed that he didn’t get to play a more “flattering” character during the special, he did say that being assigned to sit next to Meryl Streep in the audience was definitely a plus. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “Meryl rules!” Davidson told Meyers, explaining that no one in the audience at “SNL50” knew where they were sitting until the day of the event. Advertisement “I get to my seat, and I just look, and I’m like, ‘This can’t be right,’’ he recalled of the moment he realized he was sitting next to the Oscar-winner. “It was Meryl Streep! But I just sat there, and I was like, ‘I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry that I’m sitting next to you. You’re the best.’ And she was very nice!” Related Seth Meyers saturday night live pete davidson Pete Davidson Reveals Why 'SNL' Refused To Fire Him, Even When He Asked For It Pete Davidson Says 5 Words From Leonardo DiCaprio Calmed His Pre-Show 'SNL' Jitters Seth Meyers Casually Reveals Real Reason Bill Hader Skipped ‘SNL50’ — And Hader Confirms It Bowen Yang Recalls 'SNL' Guest Host Who 'Made Multiple Cast Members Cry' Trump’s Vain Reason For Nixing ‘SNL’ Sketch Is Finally Revealed Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post