Trump Signs Executive Order Putting Federal Grants Under Political Control
Trump Signs Executive Order Putting Federal Grants Under Political Control Federal grants will now undergo evaluation by Trump's political appointees. Kanishka Singh and Jasper Ward Aug 8, 2025, 12:04 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING WASHINGTON, Aug 7 (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Thursday to tighten federal grant approvals, with grant award decisions to now undergo evaluation by Trump’s political appointees, the White House said. WHY IT’S IMPORTANT The Trump administration has threatened to cut federal funds for various agencies and educational institutions over a range of issues. These include pro-Palestinian protests against U.S. ally Israel’s war in Gaza, climate initiatives, transgender policies and diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs. Advertisement KEY QUOTES The order signed on Thursday and released by the White House said “discretionary awards must, where applicable, demonstrably advance the President’s policy priorities.” It said subject matter experts would also be involved in decisions on awarding grants. The order criticized DEI programs, assistance for immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally, and transgender initiatives. It said federal grants shall not be used to fund “any other initiatives that compromise public safety or promote anti-American values.” Advertisement CONTEXT Rights advocates have raised concerns about Trump’s federal funding threats, saying they harm free speech and academic freedom and amount to political interference that can undo decades of progress. Trump and his allies defend his steps by saying his administration is combating ideologies they consider “far left” and “anti-merit.” (Reporting by Kanishka Singh and Jasper Ward; Editing by Tom Hogue) Related Donald Trump executive order federal grants Trump Administration Illegally Withheld Science Funding, Watchdog Finds Trump Administration Slashed Federal Funding For Gun Violence Prevention Trump Administration Moving To Shrink Disability Benefits For Some Recipients Trump Funding Freeze Is Another 'Nail In The Coffin' For Public Schools Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post