Machine Gun Kelly Says Megan Fox Fumes After Hearing This Compliment Directed At Him
Machine Gun Kelly Reveals Why Megan Fox Was 'Fuming' When People Called Him A 'Good Dad' The singer recently welcomed his second daughter in March. By Carly Ledbetter Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 12:03 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Machine Gun Kelly is a dad for the second time, but he doesn’t want any credit for his role as a parent. During an appearance on “Today With Jenna and Friends” on Thursday, the rocker explained why he wants to give all of the dues to his partner, Megan Fox. Advertisement “I want to detract any of the congrats to me and just move it to Megan because she really does all the work,” he shared. “I keep getting called, like, ‘the music teacher.’” “Someone the other day was like, ‘You’re such a good dad!’ just because I was holding the baby or something like that,” he said, highlighting one of the prominent double standards that moms and dads face. He said that Fox didn’t love the compliment. “She was fuming, like, ‘No, no, no, no,’” he said. “She is the one. I just, you know, play the guitar and hope and pray that the baby is happy.” Advertisement Megan Fox and Machine Gun Kelly attend the World Premiere of "Good Mourning" at The London West Hollywood at Beverly Hills on May 12, 2022, in West Hollywood, California. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images MGK and Fox welcomed their daughter, Saga Blade Fox-Baker, on March 27. Fox has three children with her ex-husband, “90210” star Brian Austin Green. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Machine Gun Kelly, whose real name is Colson Baker, also has a teenage daughter from a previous relationship. He recently opened up about the naming process for his two girls, and said that he “lost the first one and won the second one” ― for good reason. Advertisement “When you are 18 years old and you go to her mother and you go, ‘What if we named our kid ‘Kid’? It’s like ― I get why she was like, ‘Hey man, shut up,’” the “Bloody Valentine” singer told the “Today” show in July of naming his first daughter, Casie, who is now 16. Related Megan Fox Machine Gun Kelly Kelly Clarkson's Ex-Husband Brandon Blackstock Dead At 48 ‘Oh, F**k That S**t!’: John Oliver Absolutely Shreds Megyn Kelly Kelly Clarkson Suspends Las Vegas Residency Due To Ex-Husband's Illness Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post