Donald Trump's DOJ Subpoenas Attorney General Who Won Fraud Case Against Him
DOJ Opens Probe Into New York Attorney General Who Led Fraud Case Against Trump The office of New York Attorney General Letitia James received subpoenas for documents this week relating to her fraud case against Donald Trump. By Igor Bobic Senior Politics Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 11:33 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Donald Trump’s Department of Justice has opened a probe into the office of New York Attorney General Letitia James, The New York Times reported on Friday. James’s office received subpoenas for documents this week, including for information related to her successful civil fraud case against Trump. The president was found liable for fraudulently inflating his net worth and rigging his financial records last year. He was ordered to pay over $300 million, but the case is still on appeal. Advertisement The DOJ is reportedly investigating whether Trump’s civil rights were violated in the New York case, as well as the rights of the National Rifle Association, which was the target of another lawsuit by James. Trump repeatedly attacked the New York attorney general throughout the legal proceedings of his fraud trial, sharing a listing of her home address and claiming that she was “ranting and raving like a lunatic.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Earlier this year, the DOJ also began investigating allegations from the right that James committed fraud by lying on loan and bank documents to obtain better mortgage rates. Advertisement James is just one of Trump’s many perceived political enemies to be targeted by the government since the start of his second term. His administration has threatened blue-state lawmakers and cities with prosecutions, purged DOJ officials who prosecuted Jan. 6 rioters, revoked security clearances for officials involved in investigating the Jan. 6 attack on Congress, opened a probe into former DOJ special counsel Jack Smith, canceled Secret Service protection for members of Joe Biden’s family, threatened prosecution against Barack Obama and his aides, and bullied law firms, universities and media organizations into committing their financial support to his political apparatus. Related Donald Trump New York Letitia James Trump AG Prospect Warns Letitia James: 'We Will Put Your Fat Ass In Prison' Letitia James Says She Won’t Hesitate To Seize Trump’s Assets If He Doesn’t Pay Court Fine Donald Trump Shares Link Revealing Letitia James' Address While Raging Against Her Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post