JD Vance Just Addressed Trump's Comments On Who Will Be His Supposed MAGA 'Heir'
JD Vance Just Addressed Trump's Comments On Who Will Be His Supposed MAGA 'Heir' Speculation about who could succeed Trump as the Republican Party's presidential nominee in 2028 is heating up. By Marita Vlachou Breaking News Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 11:20 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Vice President JD Vance on Friday weighed in on President Donald Trump’s comments that he will “most likely” succeed Trump as the GOP presidential nominee in 2028. Speaking to reporters in the United Kingdom alongside British Foreign Secretary David Lammy, Vance joked that he doesn’t “want to talk about lowly things like politics,” before noting that he felt it was too early to start thinking about the next presidential race. Advertisement “My view on the politics of 2028 is I’m not really focused even on the election in 2026, much less one two years after that,” Vance said. “If we do a good job for the American people, the politics will take care of itself.” Earlier this week, Trump was asked if he shared the view that Vance was the MAGA “heir apparent.” “I think most likely, in all fairness, he’s the vice president,” Trump replied, while floating U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio as another possible contender who could team up with Vance. Advertisement “I think Marco is also somebody that maybe would get together with JD in some form. I also think that we have incredible people, some of the people on the stage right here. So it’s too early, obviously, to talk about it, but certainly he’s doing a great job, and he would be probably favored at this point,” he added. While Trump seems to be warming up to the idea of having Vance succeed him as the leader of the Republican Party, he didn’t seem too enthusiastic about the prospect during a February interview with Fox News. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “Do you view Vice President JD Vance as your successor, the Republican nominee in 2028?” host Bret Baier asked the president. Advertisement “No, but he’s very capable,” Trump said at the time. “So far I think he’s doing a fantastic job. It’s too early. We’re just starting.” Related Donald Trump j.d. vance 2028 elections CNN Data Chief Says This Republican Has 'Gosh Darn Good' Odds To Be 2028 GOP Nominee Trump Names His MAGA 'Heir,' Reveals Which Republican Will 'Most Likely' Succeed Him Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post