Greg Abbott Lobs New Threat At Democrats Who Fled Texas To Stop Gerrymandering
Greg Abbott Has A New Warning For Democrats Who Fled Texas Amid Redistricting Battle The White House is already looking to expand its redistricting effort to more red states. By Marita Vlachou Breaking News Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 10:00 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Gov. Greg Abbott (R) threatened to push for even more GOP-leaning congressional seats in Texas if Democrats continue to block a mid-decade redistricting effort sought by President Donald Trump to give his party an edge in the 2026 midterm election. In an episode of the “Ruthless Podcast” released Friday, Abbott was asked how he expects the ongoing standoff with Democrats to end. Advertisement “The Democrats always come back,” Abbott said. “It could be tomorrow, it could be next week. It could be next month. They’re going to come back or we’ll be able to track them down. One way or the other, they’re coming back, and it’s going to end with these maps being passed.” “If they don’t start showing up, I may start expanding it. We may make it six or seven or eight new seats we’re going to be adding on the Republican side,” he continued. Dozens of Democrats have fled Texas, leaving the state GOP unable to establish the quorum of lawmakers needed to establish business and vote to approve the congressional map that would give Republicans five more GOP-leaning congressional seats in the Lone Star State ahead of the 2026 midterms. Advertisement Subsequently, the GOP-controlled Texas House of Representatives issued civil arrest warrants for Democratic lawmakers who left the state, and Abbott called on state troopers to help find them and arrest them. Abbott has also filed a lawsuit to remove the chair of the Texas House Democratic Caucus. Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) on Thursday said FBI Director Kash Patel approved his request to have FBI agents help locate the Democratic lawmakers who fled the state. While Abbott declined to say whether the FBI should have a role in ending the impasse, he told NBC News on Thursday evening that Republicans will “use every tool that we can to make sure that these runaway Democrats are going to be held accountable.” Advertisement Abbott also defended the redistricting effort, citing the results of the 2024 presidential election, where Trump got over 56% of the vote. “A lot of people who voted Republican, who voted for Donald Trump, were trapped into Democrat districts,” Abbott told NBC. “When you look at the facts, when you look at the law, there is every reason to go ahead and draw the lines so that we can assure that every voter is going to have the opportunity to vote for their candidate of choice.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Republicans are looking to expand their redistricting push beyond Texas. Vice President JD Vance on Thursday visited Indiana, where he met with Gov. Mike Braun (R) and other local officials as part of a White House effort to pressure conservative states to redraw their maps. Meanwhile, the Republican speaker of the Florida House of Representatives created a redistricting committee. Advertisement Related Texas Greg Abbott Top Democrat Says FBI Should 'Refuse' Orders To Track Down Texas Democrats GOP Rep. Mocks Party's Hypocrisy Over Texas Gerrymandering Chaos Sen. Cornyn Asks FBI To Help Track Down, Arrest Texas Democrats Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post