This Solar-Powered Charging Bank Has So Many Nifty Features
HuffPost receives compensation from one or more retailers on this page, and may also receive a commission for purchases made via links. Every item is independently curated by the HuffPost Shopping team. Prices and availability are subject to change. This Solar-Powered Charging Bank Has Too Many Nifty Features To Name This charging station comes in handy during life's most unpredictable moments, including unexpected power outages. By Marsha Badger Travel enthusiast, journalist and owner of IntrovertNtheCity.com & MarshbarsCloset.com Aug 8, 2025, 07:00 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT Amazon The Blavor charger provides a convenient way to keep your technology intact and anxiety at bay. Over the years, we’ve witnessed global warming lead to increasingly stormy weather. From mass floods to power outages, people are left vulnerable without access to basic essentials, such as reliable power. Adding a solar-powered charging bank this like one to your toolbox not only prepares you for the unknown, but it also helps you stay connected to your friends, family, and loved ones. $27 at Amazon Advertisement This portable charger can be a game-changer during those unpredictable moments when the lights go out and your phone is on 2%. Once it’s been powered up with a sufficient amount of sunlight, the device boasts fast charging capabilities and provides a convenient way to keep your technology intact and anxiety at bay. The 10,000-mAh power bank features a lithium-cobalt battery and can provide juice either via corded USB-C or USB-A connection or with Qi charging that can deliver power wirelessly. Once fully charged, according to the brand, it can hold enough power to charge an iPhone 8 over three times, an iPhone 14 Pro more than twice, and an iPad Air once. Bonus features like a built-in dual flashlight, a compass, and an IPX5 waterproof rating – all of which add a sense of security whether you’re on a hike, camping outdoors, or dealing with a power outage. No wonder over 39,000 consumers have helped this charging bank earn a 4.3 out of 5-star ratings. See what some of these shoppers had to say: “I absolutely loved this product, I don’t even make reviews of things that I buy on Amazon, but this product was something that I needed to talk about because this amazing product not only has solar power charging. But you can also charge it with a USBC cable and it has a flashlight in it and it’s included with a little Compass. The main thing that really stuck out to me and which amazed me was that it has wireless charging, so even if you lose your USB type-c charging cable for this thing, you can still charge your phone wirelessly as long as it is turned on. And honestly it’s great you just put it in the window and let it charge throughout the day. And the flashlights are bright and very useful, the build quality is nice for the price and it works amazingly. I am very satisfied with my purchase!” – Angel “Works great. We had a power outage in our neighbor hood the whole day and this solar charger came in handy. I was able to charge multiple cell phone by using the sunlight.” – Ronald A “I just purchased a second one. The first one lasted about three years of almost constant use. The “solar” charging would actually take several days, but so far I haven’t had to use it. It is just a reliable power source that holds its charge for many many days! It quickly charges anything you connect it to. Highly recommend.” – Darla Hancock $27 at Amazon Related shopping home Tech emergency chargers Lightweight Blankets From Amazon That Look Fresh Out Of An Interior Design Catalog 26 Products So Effective Amazon Reviewers Have Literally Called Them 'Unbelievable' Reviewers Say These 'Obscenely Comfortable' Cooling Sheets Are A 'Life Saver' For Summer Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up What’s The Big Deal? Money-saving sales and brilliant buys you’ll love, delivered straight from our Shopping editors to your inbox. Successfully Subscribed! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close MORE IN Shopping MORE IN SHOPPING NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post