Trump Eases Up On Vladimir Putin By Offering The Russian Dictator 1 Major Concession
Trump Eases Up On Vladimir Putin By Offering The Russian Dictator 1 Major Concession A BBC analysis published this week showed Russia has more than doubled its attacks on Ukraine since Trump's inauguration in January. By Marita Vlachou Breaking News Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 07:32 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING President Donald Trump on Thursday offered a major concession to Russian President Vladimir Putin, fueling uncertainty about the United States’ role in the future of the three-year conflict. Trump told reporters Putin doesn’t have to confirm his attendance for a three-way meeting between him and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as a condition for holding face-to-face talks with him. Advertisement “They would like to meet with me, and I’ll do whatever I can to stop the killing,” Trump said of Russian leaders. Trump had previously told European leaders, including Zelenskyy, on Wednesday that he would be meeting with Putin shortly before holding a trilateral summit with the leaders of the two nations at war, according to The New York Times. Advertisement But Putin poured cold water on that prospect a day later, saying “certain conditions should be created” for such a meeting, while making clear that he isn’t prepared to agree to sit down with Zelenskyy. Asked whether his Friday deadline for Putin to agree to a ceasefire to avoid fresh economic sanctions still stands amid preparations for their upcoming meeting, Trump did not seem as determined to stick to his earlier threat. “It’s going to be up to him,” Trump said of Putin. “We’re going to see what he has to say.” While Putin floated the United Arab Emirates as a potential location for his meeting with Trump, two sources familiar with the negotiations between Russia and the U.S. told Fox News the meeting could happen as early as Monday in Rome, but the plans have yet to be finalized. Advertisement If the meeting goes ahead, it would be the first time Putin meets a sitting U.S. president since his Geneva summit with then-President Joe Biden in June 2021 ahead of his full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Meanwhile, a BBC Verify analysis published on Wednesday showed that Russia has more than doubled its drone and missile attacks on Ukraine since Trump’s inauguration in January, despite the U.S. president’s claims during the 2024 campaign that he would swiftly bring the conflict to a close as soon as he returned to the White House. Related Donald Trump Russia Ukraine Vladimir Putin Trump And Putin To Meet Face-To-Face 'In Coming Days' Trump Admits He Exaggerated About 1 Of His Major Campaign Promises Trump Claims He Wants To End The Ukraine War. His Call With Putin Did Little To Push Peace. Trump Says Russia's Concession In Ukraine Talks Is To Not Take 'The Whole Country' Trump Is Convinced This Is The Only Reason Putin Won't Take The Whole Of Ukraine Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post