Trump, 79, Had Emergency Heart Tests Because of Swollen Legs
President Donald Trump was evaluated by the White House medical unit after swelling in his legs, the administration revealed on Thursday. The revelation comes after images of the president’s swollen ankles and bruising on his hand raised questions over the 79-year-old’s health. Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt addressed the president’s ankles and hand in her Thursday press briefing, reading a note from the president’s physician. President Donald Trump's right hand is seen as he speaks to the press before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House on July 15, 2025. Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images “In recent weeks, President Trump noted mild swelling in his lower legs. In keeping with routine medical care and out of an abundance of caution, this concern was thoroughly evaluated by the White House medical unit,” Leavitt said. She claimed the “comprehensive examination” concluded Chronic Venous Insufficiency (CVI) and called it a “benign and common condition.” CVI occurs when veins in a person’s legs are damaged, according to the Cleveland Clinic. The veins can’t manage blood flow well and make it harder for the blood to return to the heart. The Cleveland Clinic states it may cause mild symptoms at first but could interfere with a person’s quality of life over time and “lead to serious complications.” It says the treatment for CVI include lifestyle changes such as exercise and weight loss as well as compression therapy. If such measures are not enough, it could lead providers to recommend a procedure or surgery. The disease can cause pain, but Leavitt insisted Trump was not feeling any discomfort. She referred questions about treatment to his physician. The memo from Dr. Sean Barbabella stated “Trump remains in excellent health.” It did not address his course of treatment. White House Tries to Shake Off Trump’s Bizarre Hand Make-UpSHAKE IT OFF Cameron Adams Leavitt also addressed the bruising on his hand that has raised questions on numerous occasions including this week when it appeared he had tried to cover it with concealer. She told the Daily Beast this week that the bruise is due to the president’s serial handshaking, which she repeated again on Thursday from the podium. “Recent photos of the president have shown minor bruising on the back of his hand. This is consistent with minor soft tissue irritation from frequent handshaking and the use of aspirin, which is taken as part of a standard cardiovascular prevention regime,” she claimed. The memo referred to it as a “well-known and benign side effect of aspirin therapy.” Makeup also covered a bruise on the back of President Donald Trump's hand as he hosts French President Emmanuel Macron for meetings at the White House on February 24, 2025. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Among the tests Trump had during his evaluation was a bilateral lower extremity venous Doppler ultrasound, which is used to evaluate blood flow, according to Leavitt. She also said his lab tests included a complete blood count, and he had a echocardiogram which “confirmed normal cardiac struct and function.” In April, the White House released the president’s health report, which claimed Trump had no major issues and was in “excellent health.” It specifically stated “blood flow to his extremities is unimpaired.” President Donald Trump's swollen ankles were on display while he was seated with First Lady Melania Trump, FIFA President Gianni Infantino, and his wife Leena Al Ashqar at the FIFA Club World Cup 2025 Final match on July 13, 2025 in New Jersey. Lokman Vural Elibol/Anadolu via Getty Images But images of the president’s swollen ankles while he was sitting at the FIFA Club World Cup final match on Sunday went viral online. Leavitt made a point to tout the president’s busy schedule on Thursday while denying the president was in any pain.