Wine Experts Have Done A 180 On This Once-Hated Cheap Wine
Wine Experts Have Done A 180 On This Once-Hated Cheap Wine Sommeliers sound off on why it's become so popular. By Emily Laurence On Assignment For HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 07:00 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING In your younger years, sipping Franzia out of a plastic cup may have seemed like the classy option compared with keg beer or Smirnoff Ice, but you’re a grown adult now and you’ve likely graduated to bottled wine. Friends, times have changed. Now, there is no shortage of great-tasting, carefully crafted boxed wines out there — free of many of the additives found in mass-produced wine, boxed or bottled. “Boxed wine used to be something you saw in college dorms or that your drunk auntie was drinking,” certified sommelier Grace Hood told HuffPost, adding that this is no longer the case. Advertisement Hood shared that one major advantage of boxed wine is that the wine stays good for longer because it’s kept in a plastic bladder, which minimizes oxygen exposure. With bottled wine, the air above the wine increases the emptier the bottle gets. But with boxed wine, the plastic bladder collapses as wine is dispensed, pushing out any air and keeping the remaining wine vacuum-sealed. Since the wine isn’t exposed to oxygen, it’s good for longer. “I think we’re seeing more boxed wines pop up because consumer habits are evolving. People want good-quality wine that feels approachable and offers great value, especially in a format that stays fresh longer once opened,” said Laurel Livezey, the wine program manager at Little Saint in Sonoma County, California. While the plastic bladder inside the box isn’t great for sustainability, the sommeliers we talked to said that, in general, boxed wine is more sustainable than bottled wine. Advertisement “Boxed wine is absolutely more sustainable than bottled wine. Most box wines are 3-liter boxes, holding four normal bottles,” explained Leslee D. Miller, a dually certified sommelier and owner of Amusée wine consulting firm. “This saves the environment and the wineries money on glass, labels, Stelvin [screw cap] or cork closures and more. The cost and use of energy resources have also been trimmed down by producing just one box versus four glass bottles. Additionally, many are using recycled cardboard now as well to make the box itself.” Want some advice on what boxed wine you should bring to your next summer picnic or just to have in the fridge? Keep reading for advice straight from sommeliers and a list of the best ones to try, based on their tips. Medly/Nomadica Brands like Medly and Nomadica are making boxed wines the experts recommend. Advertisement What To Keep In Mind When Shopping For Boxed Wine When shopping for boxed wine, sommelier Sarah Looper’s pro tip is to seek out young wines. Even though boxed wine can last awhile in your fridge, a plastic bladder isn’t exactly the best vessel for aging wine for years. “I would not recommend a Burgundy boxed wine,” she said, citing an example of a type of wine that tastes better aged. Hood had similar advice: “Whites and rosés can be enjoyed very young, so those are good choices for boxed wine. If you are going for a red, choose a young red and not a type of wine where you want some age on it.” If it’s made before 2023, Hood recommends getting it bottled, not boxed. All the sommeliers also told HuffPost that the best boxed wines are made by small producers. “My recommendation is to stay away from the giant companies that add sugars, colorings and more to their wines, if you want the best wine for the dollar and your health,” Miller said. “Ask your favorite retailer for help with this. A lot of the giants will use a lot of unnatural sugar in their wines, which will only cause a headache in the morning.” Advertisement Lastly, all of the sommeliers said picking a boxed wine comes down to what you like to sip on. If you want to branch out, Livezey’s advice is to head to a local wine shop and ask for recommendations. Wine sellers can suggest a wine that is similar to what you’ve enjoyed in the past, but something you may not have tried before. 7 Boxed Wines To Try With all these tips in mind, here are seven boxed wines to try this summer. 1. Ami Ami Vin orange, $25 “I absolutely love Ami Ami Vin, a California-based company making ‘Fancy French Wine in a Box’ at super accessible price points,” Livezey said. “They offer a white, orange, rosé and red and every one of them over-delivers for the category. They’re balanced, fresh and perfect for easy drinking.” This orange wine was produced in the south of France and is a blend of grenache blanc and muscat. 2. La Vieille Ferme blanc, $29.99 “This is one of the best [boxed wines] on the market,” Miller said. A blend of grenache blanc, ugni blanc and vermentino, this wine is crisp, dry and perfect for easy summer drinking. Advertisement 3. Juliet sauvignon blanc, $35 Sauvignon blanc is always a crowd-pleaser. This one comes straight from Santa Barbara, and its citrusy notes pair well with light, summery foods, like salad, seafood and pesto pasta. 4. Nomadica rosé, $50 Before you balk at the idea of a $50 boxed wine, remember that there are four bottles worth of rosé in there. Unlike many mass-produced rosés, this one has no added sugar; all its sweetness comes straight from the grapes. 5. Medly French red, $49 When shopping for a boxed red wine, all of the sommeliers recommend choosing one that’s young and light, like this blend of malbec, cabernet sauvignon, grenache and cinsault. It’s certified organic, biodynamic and has no added sugar. Advertisement 6. Gratsi rosé, $50 Another wine that’s free of sugar and many of the additives found in mass-produced wine, this rosé is crisp and fruity — perfect for pizza night. 7. Really Good Boxed Wine pinot gris, $70 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Produced in Napa Valley, the tasting notes of this pinot gris are ripe pear, honeydew, dried peach and lime. It doesn’t get much more summery than that. Related Wine Is It Rude If Your Dinner Party Host Didn't Open The Bottle Of Wine You Brought? This $18 Glass Keeps Your Wine Perfectly Chilled 14 Wine Destinations In The U.S. That Aren't Napa Or Sonoma Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Good Life A completely essential daily guide to achieving the good life. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close MORE IN Food & Drink MORE IN LIFE NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Food & Drink. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post