See the Bizarre Life Forms Scientists Found More Than 31,000 Feet Under the Ocean Surface
Environment August 3, 2025 See the Bizarre Life Forms Scientists Found More Than 31,000 Feet Under the Ocean Surface Forget photosynthesis—these marine communities rely on chemosynthesis to survive in darkness, and under intense pressure. Benji Jones Environmental Correspondent at VoxBio Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Bluesky Email Comments At approximately 31,000 feet, researchers found centipede-like critters—actually a type of worm called macellicephaloides—amid smaller tube worms.Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Get your news from a source that’s not owned and controlled by oligarchs. Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily. This story was originally published by Vox.com and is reproduced here as part of the Climate Desk collaboration. The Titanic lies about 12,500 feet under the ocean surface. The pressure down there is so immense that even submersibles supposedly built for those conditions can, as we know, tragically fail. Now imagine taking a sub nearly three times deeper. That’s what an international team of scientists did last summer. Led by the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the researchers took a manned submersible to the bottom of deep-sea trenches in an area in the northwest Pacific Ocean, roughly between Japan and Alaska, reaching a depth of more than 31,000 feet. Clusters of tube worms.Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS The researchers weren’t looking for a shipwreck. They were interested in what else might be lurking on the seafloor, which is so deep that no light can reach it. It was there that they found something remarkable: entire communities of animals, rooted in organisms that are able to derive energy not from sunlight but from chemical reactions. Through a process called chemosynthesis, deep-sea microbes are able to turn compounds like methane and hydrogen sulfide into organic compounds, including sugars, forming the base of the food chain. The discovery was published in the journal Nature. This was the deepest community of chemosynthetic life ever discovered, according to Mengran Du, a study author and researcher at the Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Collections of microbes at the bottom of a trench in the Pacific Ocean.Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Using a deep-sea vessel called Fendouzhe, the researchers encountered abundant wildlife communities, including fields of marine tube worms peppered with white marine snails. The worms have a symbiotic relationship with chemosynthetic bacteria that live in their bodies. Those bacteria provide them with a source of nutrients in exchange for, among other things, a stable place to live. Among the tube worms the scientists encountered white, centipede-like critters—they’re also a kind of worm, in the genus macellicephaloides—as well as sea cucumbers. The researchers also found a variety of different clams on the seafloor, often alongside anemones. Similar to the tube worms, the clams depend on bacteria within their shells to turn chemical compounds like methane and hydrogen sulfide that are present in the deep sea into food. Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Unlike other deep-sea ecosystems—which feed on dead animals and other organic bits that fall from shallower waters—these trench communities are likely sustained in part by methane produced by microbes buried under the seafloor, the authors said. That suggests that wildlife communities may be more common in these extremely deep trenches than scientists once thought. “The presence of these chemosynthetic ecosystems challenge long-standing assumptions about life’s potential at extreme depths,” Du told Vox in an email. Looking for news you can trust? Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now More about: Animals Climate Change Climate Desk Science Related The Critical Research That Unlocks Our Climate’s Past and Future May Be on Thin Ice Henry Carnell Another Trump Casualty: A Tiny Office That Keeps Measurements of the World Accurate Molly Taft Stop Doomscrolling and Check Out the World’s Tiniest Critters Patrick Greenfield Madagascar’s Unique Creatures Face a Wave of Extinction Phoebe Weston We Recommend The CDC Shooter Was Obsessed With Vaccine Conspiracy Theories. RFK Jr. Was Predictably Slow to Respond. Samantha Michaels Trump’s Defense Secretary Seems to Admire Men Who Want to Stop Women From Voting Samantha Michaels Trump’s Energy Chief, a Former Fracking CEO, Aims to Tinker With Key Climate Reports Mark Oliver She Ate a Poppy Seed Salad. Child Services Took Her Baby. Reveal Latest “It’s Not Just a Texas Problem. It’s an American Problem.” Tim Murphy Why Evangelicals Couldn’t Care Less About Trump’s Epstein Scandal The Reverend Rob Schenck Relentless Climate Disasters Are Wiping Out Local Businesses Tik Root Wheelchair Users Are Finally Winning the Right to Repair Julia Métraux Sign up for our free newsletter Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. Get our award-winning magazine Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. Subscribe Support our journalism Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation. Donate RHC membership for blog posts view comments