Trump Throws Absolute Fit In Middle-Of-The-Night Meltdown At Ex-GOP Official
Trump Throws Absolute Fit In Middle-Of-The-Night Meltdown At Ex-GOP Official The president targeted frequent critic Geoff Duncan, the former lieutenant governor of Georgia who officially switched parties this week. By Ed Mazza Deputy Editor, Trends, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 03:36 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING President Donald Trump fired off an attack on a former Republican official in a Truth Social post just after 1 a.m. Eastern time on Friday. “Failed former Lt. Governor Geoff Duncan, of Georgia, is a total loser,” Trump wrote of Duncan, who called out the president’s lies about the 2020 election and has remained an outspoken critic ever since. Advertisement “Was never able to get anything done, all he ever did was complain,” Trump wrote. “We didn’t want him in the Republican Party any longer, so I’m told he became a Democrat. Good riddance Geoff. You don’t even have a chance!!!” Duncan, who was expelled by the state GOP in January, announced this week that he had left the Republican Party and become a Democrat. In 2020, Duncan voted for Trump. But after losing the election, Trump pressured officials in multiple states ― including Georgia ― to overturn the results. Trump frequently attacked Duncan as well as Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, both Republicans, for refusing to overturn Joe Biden’s narrow win in that state. Advertisement Duncan ultimately chose not to seek reelection, while Kemp and Raffensperger each overwhelmingly won reelection in 2022 despite Trump’s criticism. Duncan has since made regular appearances in the media, speaking out against Trump. In 2023, he said Trump has a “moral compass more like an ax murderer than a president.” He’s also said the Republican Party today is not the one he grew up with. “Donald Trump completely controls the entire GOP,” Duncan said on CNN last month. “The only example I can give that equates to it is like a rogue cult leader coming into a church and taking it over. He’s brainwashed them.” Advertisement Duncan spoke at the Democratic National Convention last year as he endorsed then-Vice President Kamala Harris. There is speculation that Duncan could run for governor as a Democrat in 2026, when Kemp will not be able to seek reelection due to term limits. Related Donald Trump kamala harris Brian Kemp Brad Raffensperger Geoff Duncan Ex-GOP Official Hits Trump With A Cold, Harsh Truth On CNN Georgia Republican Spots 'Only Thing' For 'Chaotic And Crazy' GOP To Do About Trump An Ex-GOP Official Just Did The Unthinkable — And Trump Won't Be Happy Ex-GOP Official Shreds Trump’s Picks With Withering Metaphor Harris Courts The 250,000 Voters Who Rejected Trump In North Carolina Primary Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post