'Terminator' Filmmaker Sounds Alarm On This 'Apocalypse'-Level Threat
'Terminator' Filmmaker Sounds Alarm On This 'Apocalypse'-Level Threat James Cameron warned of a looming "danger" that feels ripped from the script of his iconic '80s film. By Ben Blanchet Aug 8, 2025, 03:23 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Director James Cameron isn’t holding back as he added to his history of speculating about the future of artificial intelligence, which plays a key role in his 1984 science-fiction classic, “The Terminator.” Cameron, in an interview with Rolling Stone published Tuesday, explained that he sees a “danger of a Terminator-style apocalypse” should AI ever combine with weapons systems, including those at the nuclear level. Advertisement “The theater of operations is so rapid, the decision windows are so fast, it would take a superintelligence to be able to process it, and maybe we’ll be smart and keep a human in the loop,” explained Cameron, whose “Terminator” film sees the AI defense network SkyNet become sentient and take over the world. “But humans are fallible, and there have been a lot of mistakes made that have put us right on the brink of international incidents that could have led to nuclear war. So I don’t know.” Cameron, whose “Avatar” movies also touch on the dangers of tech, added that he thinks we’re on the “cusp in human development” with three existential threats: “climate and our overall degradation of the natural world, nuclear weapons and super-intelligence.” Advertisement “They’re all sort of manifesting and peaking at the same time,” he continued. “Maybe the super-intelligence is the answer. I don’t know. I’m not predicting that, but it might be.” Cameron told the magazine that he currently has a “love-hate relationship” with tech and has been leaning into teaching himself the value of generative AI so he can loop it into his “future art.” Last year, Cameron — despite his past criticism of AI — joined the board of the generative AI company Stability AI, claiming at the time that “the intersection of generative AI and CGI image creation is the next wave.” Advertisement Earlier this year, he told the “Boz to the Future” podcast that AI could prove vital to keep blockbuster filmmaking alive by cutting production costs. As far as using AI for creative purposes, Cameron has kept the door open to focusing on AI rather than “bad robots gone crazy” in a potential reboot to the “Terminator” franchise. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. He’s also once expressed doubts that AI could ever produce a “good story” like a human screenwriter can. Advertisement Related artificial intelligence james cameron The Terminator Chris Pratt Reveals An Unexpectedly Sweet Side Of Arnold Schwarzenegger Sharon Stone Says She Told Michael Douglas To 'Step Outside' In Heated Fight Drake’s ‘Weird’ Post About Gracie Abrams Has Fans Seriously Side-Eyeing Him Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post