Congressional Dems Sue After Being Turned Away from ICE Facilities
Politics July 31, 2025 Congressional Dems Sue After Being Turned Away From ICE Facilities Can the president deny members of Congress their legal right to investigate? Pema Levy ReporterBio | Follow Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Bluesky Email Comments Rep. LaMonica McIver (D-N.J.) is being prosecuted after her May 9 attempt to inspect a Newark ICE facility.Angelina Katsanis/AP Get your news from a source that’s not owned and controlled by oligarchs. Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily. Over and over again, Democratic members of Congress have attempted to enter Immigration and Customs Enforcement facilities to investigate the conditions inside—and again and again they have been turned away, even though federal law guarantees them access to ICE detention facilities in order to conduct oversight. The Trump administration’s decision to keep lawmakers out created a Constitutional showdown. The case will test constitutional checks and balances. Now, the issue is heading to court. On Wednesday, 12 Democratic House members sued for access to ICE detention facilities, in accordance with the law. The case is important to US immigration policy, and to the Trump administration’s goal of detaining immigrants without oversight into conditions in those facilities. It also raises a larger question: Can the executive branch turn off an oversight duty that is not just implicit in Congress’ powers but that it specifically inscribed in law? Since 2019, Congress has included language in its bills funding the Department of Homeland Security that guarantees members of Congress access to inspect ICE detention facilities without prior warning, so as to get an unvarnished view of conditions inside. This came as a direct result of members of Congress being turned away from DHS facilities holding minors during the first Trump administration’s policy of separating children from their parents. As detailed in Wednesday’s lawsuit, over the past few months ICE has come up with new reasons to deny entry to members of Congress and their designated staff. Though federal law allows for unannounced visits by lawmakers and 24 hours notice for their staff, ICE unilaterally instituted a seven-day notification requirement. But even when lawmakers provide a week’s notice, they have been turned away. In June, for example, despite giving seven days notice, New York Reps. Jerry Nadler and Dan Goldman found themselves denied entry to a detainee holding space in Manhattan by an ICE official wearing a novelty Guinness shirt with the top buttons undone—an indelible image of an agency with no respect for the first branch of government. According to the lawsuit, filed by the legal groups American Oversight and Democracy Forward, Goldman and Nadler were turned away because ICE insisted the 10th floor of its New York field office was not a detention facility. Even though ICE was holding people there, some for more than two days, the agency claimed that it fell outside the scope of Congress’ authority to enter ICE facilities “used to detain or otherwise house” detainees. The lawsuit alleges multiple legal violations on the part of DHS and asks a federal district court in Washington, DC to compel the agency to comply with their oversight requirements. This case could determine whether ICE, which will receive $45 billion in additional funding under President Donald Trump’s new budget bill, will operate its ballooning detention schemes in increasing darkness. As the Trump administration seeks to detain and deport millions of people, congressional oversight provides a critical window into how detainees are being treated. Reports of overcrowded and inhumane conditions are already prevalent. The case will also test the checks and balances that each branch can impose upon the other. In this case, members of Congress are relying not only on their historical oversight role, which is critical to its legislative function, but also on an explicit ability to investigate ICE detention facilities that it has repeatedly written into law. When administration lawyers respond to the suit, they could argue that the lawmakers are misreading the statute, or they could swing big and argue that immigration is an executive function where Congress has no constitutional role. It could also argue that individual members of Congress cannot sue to vindicate their rights, and instead that only a suit brought by a majority of Congress—now controlled by Republicans—would have standing. Finally, they could argue that the current oversight ability, enabled by a portion of a congressionally-appropriated funding bill, does not carry the necessary force to require ICE compliance. If accepted, any of these arguments would diminish Congress’ role in our scheme of checks and balances. At the Supreme Court, the GOP majority has moved toward a maximalist view of executive power in recent years while curtailing Congress’ own powers—a change in the law that has accelerated upon Trump’s return to office. That has included skepticism of Congress’ ability to issue requirements through spending bills, as if some of the laws Congress passes carry less force than others. The justices may quickly be asked to respond. Over the past six months, the administration has rushed to the Supreme Court for emergency relief when lower courts rule against them, where the Republican-appointed majority has generally given them what they want. Looking for news you can trust? Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now More about: Congress Courts Donald Trump Immigration Immigration and Customs Enforcement Related The Plainclothes Goon Squad Inae Oh We Asked Trump’s Former Prisons Chief How $45 Billion Will Reshape Immigrant Detention Samantha Michaels Private Prison Companies Set to Make Billions Reopening Jails for ICE Sophie Hurwitz The CDC Shooter Was Obsessed With Vaccine Conspiracy Theories. RFK Jr. Was Predictably Slow to Respond. Samantha Michaels We Recommend Trump’s Defense Secretary Seems to Admire Men Who Want to Stop Women From Voting Samantha Michaels Trump’s Energy Chief, a Former Fracking CEO, Aims to Tinker With Key Climate Reports Mark Oliver She Ate a Poppy Seed Salad. Child Services Took Her Baby. Reveal Why Evangelicals Couldn’t Care Less About Trump’s Epstein Scandal The Reverend Rob Schenck Latest “It’s Not Just a Texas Problem. It’s an American Problem.” Tim Murphy Relentless Climate Disasters Are Wiping Out Local Businesses Tik Root Wheelchair Users Are Finally Winning the Right to Repair Julia Métraux A Doctor in Gaza Describes the Horror of Starvation Najib Aminy Sign up for our free newsletter Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. Get our award-winning magazine Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. Subscribe Support our journalism Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation. Donate RHC membership for blog posts view comments