“It’s Abhorrent” A Whistleblower Contractor Speaks Out Amid Gaza Aid Chaos
Israel and Palestine July 30, 2025 “It’s Abhorrent”: A Whistleblower Contractor Speaks Out as Gaza’s Famine Spreads Retired US Army officer Anthony Aguilar recounts violence and chaos at food sites run by the American group Gaza Humanitarian Foundation, in this special France 24–Mother Jones report. Jessica Le Masurier Bio James West Executive EditorBio | Follow Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Bluesky Email Comments Mother Jones/France 24; Andalou/Getty Get your news from a source that’s not owned and controlled by oligarchs. Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily. On June 6, Anthony Aguilar, a retired 25-year US Army veteran and Green Beret, found himself facing a daunting logistical problem. He had been recruited as a security contractor for UG Solutions, a partner of the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation—the Israel-backed American nonprofit now overseeing food distribution in the devastated Palestinian territory. His challenge: finding a way to feed the local Palestinian workers assisting with GHF’s efforts. “Nobody could figure out how to get food there,” he says. So Aguilar says they settled on a workaround: ordering stacks of Domino’s pizzas via an Israeli delivery app and picking them up at the Gaza border themselves. “We then took those 27 pizzas in an armored convoy,” he says, to a GHF distribution site within the strip. For Aguilar, it was a striking example of systemic failures at GHF, “an enterprise that has failed from the beginning,” he says. “It’s abhorrent. If it weren’t so tragic, it would be comedy. It’s not comedy, because it is absolutely tragic.” Video Watch the special report: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Aguilar has been speaking out about what he witnessed while working with GHF in May and June, adding to the controversy about the organization’s role in Gaza’s emerging famine. Recently, he sat down with France 24’s Jessica Le Masurier, who, along with Mother Jones, is publishing excerpts from an on-camera interview with Aguilar about his experiences. The United Nations accuses the private organization of militarizing aid operations. Its Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights reports that between May 27 and July 21, 766 Palestinians were killed in the vicinity of GHF sites. As Mother Jones reporter Pema Levy recently pointed out, what GHF provides after Israel has blocked most other aid represents a massive reduction in help for starving Palestinians: “Instead of the approximately 400 aid sites and mobile clinics that the humanitarian community was operating, GHF set up just four sites in southern Gaza, far from the north where most of the population is concentrated.” “Palestinians are getting hurt,” Aguilar tells Le Masurier, recounting episodes in which he claims his fellow personnel were “utilizing nonlethal munitions and lethal munitions in unauthorized ways.” In one instance, he says he saw a contractor throw a stun grenade that detonated, its metal top hitting a woman’s head and rendering her motionless before she was wheeled away by a donkey cart. (France 24 and Mother Jones could not identify the woman or determine whether she was killed.) In an incident on May 29, Aguilar says he witnessed two contractors firing rifles “in bursts” from vantage points around a GHF distribution site “into the crowd.” In video footage supplied by Aguilar, someone can be heard yelling, “I think you hit one.” Another shouts, “Hell yeah, boy!” “There was catcalling and celebrating,” Aguilar says. “They were cheering.” (The video was previously reported by the Associated Press.) In a statement to France 24 and Mother Jones, UG Solutions confirmed that its personnel fired warning shots near GHF facilities but denied they “have ever directed” them toward civilians, rather “upwards, in the air and towards the coastline.” The group also states on its website that the contractor heard in the video was “encouraging IDF [Israel Defense Forces] fire” and has since been terminated. GHF also said gunfire heard in the video “originated from the IDF, which was outside the immediate vicinity of the GHF site,” and called Aguilar’s descriptions the event “categorically false.” More broadly, UG Solutions denies Aguilar’s allegations, calling him a “disgruntled former contractor who seeks revenge.” Aguilar adamantly disputes the characterization. Safe Reach Solutions, a UG contractor that Aguilar says was involved in the pizza incident, did not respond to a request for comment. In a statement, the IDF said: “Following incidents in which harm to civilians who arrived at distribution facilities was reported, thorough examinations were conducted in the Southern Command and instructions were issued to forces in the field following lessons learned. The incidents are under review by the competent authorities in the IDF.” Israel announced last weekend that it would pause fighting in parts of Gaza for 10 hours a day to allow, in the words of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, “the entry of minimal humanitarian supplies.” One memory remains especially haunting to Aguilar. He showed Le Masurier video of a shoeless boy approaching him alone at a distribution site, who kissed his hand. In the chaos that followed, amid warning shots and tear gas, Aguilar was struck by the child’s innocence: “This young boy had nothing to do with what Hamas did on October 7th.” Looking for news you can trust? Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now More about: Foreign Policy Israel and Palestine Video Related “This Is Trump’s Famine”: How the US Is Complicit in Gaza’s Suffering Pema Levy “They Look Very Hungry” and a Familiar American Excuse Inae Oh IDF Deliberately Targeting Children in Gaza, US Doctors Allege Reveal How Famine and Starvation Could Affect Gazans for Generations to Come interview by Neroli Price, Salman Ahad Khan, Gabrielle Berbey and edited by Nina Martin We Recommend The CDC Shooter Was Obsessed With Vaccine Conspiracy Theories. RFK Jr. Was Predictably Slow to Respond. Samantha Michaels Trump’s Defense Secretary Seems to Admire Men Who Want to Stop Women From Voting Samantha Michaels Trump’s Energy Chief, a Former Fracking CEO, Aims to Tinker With Key Climate Reports Mark Oliver She Ate a Poppy Seed Salad. Child Services Took Her Baby. Reveal Latest “It’s Not Just a Texas Problem. It’s an American Problem.” Tim Murphy Why Evangelicals Couldn’t Care Less About Trump’s Epstein Scandal The Reverend Rob Schenck Relentless Climate Disasters Are Wiping Out Local Businesses Tik Root Wheelchair Users Are Finally Winning the Right to Repair Julia Métraux Sign up for our free newsletter Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. Get our award-winning magazine Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. Subscribe Support our journalism Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation. Donate RHC membership for blog posts view comments