Rosie O'Donnell Spots The 'Dangerous' Reason Behind Trump White House Attacking 'The View'
Rosie O'Donnell Spots 'Dangerous' Reason Behind Trump White House Attacking 'The View' O'Donnell swiftly dismissed critics who characterize her old show as "some radical leftist threat." By Ben Blanchet Aug 8, 2025, 01:29 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Rosie O’Donnell on Wednesday shared her concerns that ABC could cancel “The View,” a show she co-hosted for several years, in an effort to kiss up to President Donald Trump and his Federal Communications Commission. In a TikTok post, O’Donnell said she read that the network was reviewing the show for “liberal bias.” It’s unclear where her information came from, but just weeks ago the White House ominously warned “The View” could be “the next to be pulled off air” due to host Joy Behar’s recent Trump criticism. At the time, FCC Chair Brendan Carr also expressed that “The View” might be on the administration’s radar. Advertisement “Because it’s not enough to run the country into the ground, you have to control what people SEE, what they HEAR, what they think,” O’Donnell wrote. “And ‘The View’? Well, that’s a little too much woman, a little too much truth — a little too much Joy Behar saying, ‘I don’t think the insurrection was a tourist visit, Karen.’ Apparently, the truth is dangerous now.” About two months ago, a Daily Beast report detailed how Disney and ABC News heads told the women of “The View” to dial down their political takes, a request the panel wasn’t cool with. ABC executives have previously pressured hosts over their Trump talk, with late night host Jimmy Kimmel revealing in 2022 that the network’s top bosses eventually backed away after they initially asked him to tone down his criticism. Advertisement Last month, O’Donnell — whose online presence has recently infuriated Trump, leading him to threaten to revoke her U.S. citizenship — ripped CBS for giving in to the president’s “blackmail” with its shock “Late Show” cancellation. At the time, she questioned how long other media figures outside Stephen Colbert have “against this horrific administration.” While CBS claimed the “Late Show” cancellation was “purely a financial decision” (subsequent reports indicated that the show was facing financial challenges), critics have speculated that the network made the move for political reasons so parent company Paramount Global could get the Trump-favoring FCC chair’s approval on a multibillion-dollar merger deal. Advertisement O’Donnell, in her TikTok post, swiftly dismissed critics who characterize “The View” as “some radical leftist threat.” “I used to think the First Amendment meant something. I used to think you couldn’t just erase a voice because it made you uncomfortable. But that’s where we are,” she said. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “They don’t want balance. They want obedience. And they will shut down anything that reminds people of what freedom sounds like.” Advertisement Related Donald Trump White House The View Federal Communications Commission rosie o'donnell 'Very, Very, Very Confident': James Carville's Bold Prediction Is A Warning For Trump The Trump Admin’s Branding Of An Indiana Detention Facility Is Getting Major Backlash Trump’s Sleight-Of-Hand On The Jeffrey Epstein Scandal Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post