Voters Can’t Sue for Disability Discrimination, Court Rules
Politics July 28, 2025 Voters Can’t Sue for Disability Discrimination, Court Rules The conservative Eighth Circuit restricted voting rights enforcement to state officials—even in notoriously anti-voter states. Julia Métraux ReporterBio Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Bluesky Email Comments A wheelchair-accessible polling station during midterm elections in Los Angeles in 2022Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Get your news from a source that’s not owned and controlled by oligarchs. Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily. The Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled on Monday that private citizens have no standing to sue for disability-based violations of the Voting Rights Act of 1965—the landmark federal legislation which protects, among other things, the right to voting assistance for disabled people and voters with low English literacy. The Eighth Circuit’s jurisdiction covers Arkansas, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota—meaning voters in those states will no longer have any direct remedy when those rights are violated. All but one of the Eighth Circuit’s 11 judges were appointed under Republican administrations, including four Trump appointees from the president’s first term; any appeal by Arkansas United, the pro–voting rights nonprofit that brought the case, could set up the similarly conservative Supreme Court to extend the ruling to cover the country as a whole. (Some conservative justices have had surprising records on disability rights—but the Roberts Court is also infamously the bench that gutted the VRA.) Only state attorneys general themselves, the court’s ruling holds, can act to enforce the Voting Rights Act and prevent violations—not, in the case of states with notoriously poor voting rights records, very likely. Within the Eighth Circuit’s jurisdiction, state governments in Missouri, Arkansas, Nebraska, and Iowa have all enacted party-line voter suppression laws in recent years—governments that voters facing VRA discrimination would now have to rely on for enforcement. “Based on the text and structure of the VRA, Congress did not give private plaintiffs the ability to sue,” the judgment reads in part. Arkansas United, the group that brought the case forward, is a nonprofit mainly known for working with immigrants in the state—an illustration of the flexibility, breadth, and significance of the Voting Rights Act, which intertwines protections for immigrants and second-language English speakers with those it provides to disabled voters. In 2009, Arkansas passed a law limiting to six the number of individuals that one person, other than poll workers, could legally assist to vote. In August 2022, a court granted a summary judgment to Arkansas United getting rid of the six-person limit—but the next month, the Eighth Circuit of Appeals granted an emergency motion to allow the law to continue. The July 28 decision by the Eighth Circuit reversed the summary judgment for Arkansas United and sent the case back to the district court for further action, according to Democracy Docket. As I previously reported for Mother Jones, most ballot measures are written at a graduate-school reading level—and, except in North Dakota and New York, not in plain language. It can be notoriously challenging for anyone to follow exactly what some ballot measures propose; that’s even more the case for some disabled people and voters with limited English proficiency. Arkansas isn’t the only state that has tried to limit voter assistance: Last September, a district judge overturned a law in Alabama that made it a felony to assist people in requesting and voting with absentee ballots. Nor is this the Eighth Circuit’s only recent attack on the Voting Rights Act: the court held in May that people of color cannot sue individually under VRA provisions against racial discrimination, a holding temporarily blocked by the Supreme Court last Thursday in a 6-3 decision, with Justices Thomas, Alito, and Gorsuch dissenting. Correction, July 28: This post has been updated to reflect the scope of the Eighth Circuit’s jurisdiction. Looking for news you can trust? Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now More about: Disability Rights Voting Rights Related The CDC Shooter Was Obsessed With Vaccine Conspiracy Theories. RFK Jr. Was Predictably Slow to Respond. Samantha Michaels Trump’s Defense Secretary Seems to Admire Men Who Want to Stop Women From Voting Samantha Michaels She Ate a Poppy Seed Salad. Child Services Took Her Baby. Reveal Trump’s Energy Chief, a Former Fracking CEO, Aims to Tinker With Key Climate Reports Mark Oliver We Recommend Why Evangelicals Couldn’t Care Less About Trump’s Epstein Scandal The Reverend Rob Schenck “It’s Not Just a Texas Problem. It’s an American Problem.” Tim Murphy Relentless Climate Disasters Are Wiping Out Local Businesses Tik Root “What They Did There Was Torture Us” Noah Lanard and Isabela Dias Latest Wheelchair Users Are Finally Winning the Right to Repair Julia Métraux A Doctor in Gaza Describes the Horror of Starvation Najib Aminy South Park Comes for Kristi Noem and ICE Arianna Coghill ICE Is Extremely Desperate for You to Work for Them Julianne McShane Sign up for our free newsletter Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. Get our award-winning magazine Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. Subscribe Support our journalism Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation. Donate RHC membership for blog posts view comments