A Non-Exhaustive Timeline of Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s War on Vaccines
Politics July 28, 2025 A Non-Exhaustive Timeline of Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s War on Vaccines He’s transformed conspiracy theories into action and reshaped American policy in just a few months. Kiera Butler National CorrespondentBio | Follow Anna Merlan Senior ReporterBio Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Bluesky Email Comments Mother Jones illustration; Nathan Posner/Anadolu/Getty Get your news from a source that’s not owned and controlled by oligarchs. Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily. Long before he became secretary of the US Department of Health and Human Services under President Trump, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. was laying the groundwork for his war on vaccines. As the head of the anti-vaccine nonprofit Children’s Health Defense, Kennedy amplified once-fringe conspiracies about vaccine safety and joined a larger crusade against the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, the government initiative that was established in the 1980s by Congress to compensate people who were able to prove a likely vaccine injury. In his current leadership role, Kennedy has leveraged political power, transforming conspiracy theories into action—and reshaping American vaccine policy in just a few short months. Related The Plot Against Vaccines January 10, 2017: Before Trump’s first term, Kennedy claims he was asked to chair a commission on “vaccine safety.” It never comes to pass. June 29, 2021: A new edition of The Vaccine Court: The Dark Truth of America’s Vaccine Injury Compensation Program has a foreword by Kennedy. May 9, 2022: Kennedy tweets that “the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program protects government agencies and corporations, not vaccine-injured children.” April 19, 2023: Kennedy announces his run for president. August 23, 2024: Kennedy suspends campaign and backs Trump, pledging to work on “the chronic disease epidemic” with him. September 5, 2024: Kennedy debuts the “Make America Healthy Again” slogan in a Wall Street Journal op-ed, attracting a new cohort to Trump’s fan base. November 14, 2024: Trump nominates Kennedy to serve as Health and Human Services secretary. January 29–30, 2025: During his Senate confirmation hearings, Kennedy says he’ll support the current vaccine schedule, insisting he just wants “good science.” He is confirmed after Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.), a doctor who heads the health committee, says he anticipates having “an unprecedentedly close collaborative working relationship” with Kennedy. February 20, 2025: Kennedy postpones a meeting of the CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), thereby delaying recommendations for fall vaccines. March 2, 2025: Amid a deadly measles outbreak, Kennedy writes a Fox News op-ed asserting that “the decision to vaccinate is a personal one.” He later touts unproven treatments for measles, including cod liver oil. March 25, 2025: Kennedy hires David Geier to reportedly study the debunked link between vaccines and autism. Geier has been disciplined for practicing medicine without a license and had papers on autism claims retracted. June 6, 2025: HHS pays $150,000 to an Arizona law firm for “expertise” on the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program; a partner frequently represents people suing vaccine makers. June 9, 2025: Kennedy fires all 17 members of ACIP and then appoints eight new members, three of whom have a history of anti-vax activism. Cassidy decries the move. June 16, 2025: CDC expert Fiona Havers quits over Kennedy’s meddling in vaccination standards: “If it isn’t stopped and some of this isn’t reversed, like, immediately, a lot of Americans are going to die.” June 23, 2025: Kennedy appoints Lyn Redwood—who ran the anti-vaccine group that later became Kennedy’s Children’s Health Defense—to the CDC’s Immunization Safety Office. Before she is due to present to ACIP about concerns over thimerosal, an ingredient that anti-vaccine activists have long falsely claimed causes autism, her slides, citing a study that does not exist, are posted publicly. The citation is removed, but after her address, ACIP votes to no longer recommend flu vaccines that contain thimerosal. June 25, 2025: Kennedy says the United States will stop funding GAVI, a global vaccine alliance. The $1 billion previously pledged, he says, will not be delivered until GAVI starts “taking vaccine safety seriously.” Looking for news you can trust? Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now More about: Health Care politics Related The Plot Against Vaccines Kiera Butler and Anna Merlan The CDC Shooter Was Obsessed With Vaccine Conspiracy Theories. RFK Jr. Was Predictably Slow to Respond. Samantha Michaels Trump’s Defense Secretary Seems to Admire Men Who Want to Stop Women From Voting Samantha Michaels She Ate a Poppy Seed Salad. Child Services Took Her Baby. Reveal We Recommend Trump’s Energy Chief, a Former Fracking CEO, Aims to Tinker With Key Climate Reports Mark Oliver Why Evangelicals Couldn’t Care Less About Trump’s Epstein Scandal The Reverend Rob Schenck “It’s Not Just a Texas Problem. It’s an American Problem.” Tim Murphy Relentless Climate Disasters Are Wiping Out Local Businesses Tik Root Latest Wheelchair Users Are Finally Winning the Right to Repair Julia Métraux A Doctor in Gaza Describes the Horror of Starvation Najib Aminy South Park Comes for Kristi Noem and ICE Arianna Coghill “What They Did There Was Torture Us” Noah Lanard and Isabela Dias Sign up for our free newsletter Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. Get our award-winning magazine Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. Subscribe Support our journalism Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation. Donate RHC membership for blog posts view comments