“They Look Very Hungry” and a Familiar American Excuse
Politics July 28, 2025 “They Look Very Hungry” and a Familiar American Excuse Trump seemed to admit that children in Gaza are starving. He’s just the latest politician to pretend he can’t do something about it. Inae Oh Senior News and Engagement EditorBio | Follow Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Bluesky Email Comments Chris Furlong/AP Get your news from a source that’s not owned and controlled by oligarchs. Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily. As excruciating reports of unmitigated disaster and starving Gazans, including infants and babies, continue to pour in, President Donald Trump on Monday appeared to recognize reality. “That’s real starvation stuff,” Trump told reporters. “I see it. You can’t fake that.” When asked if he agreed with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s extraordinary claim that there is “no starvation in Gaza,” the president responded: “Based on television, I would say not particularly because those children look very hungry.” Indeed, the remarks represented a rare and significant break from his Israeli counterpart as Netanyahu reportedly slow-walks the entry of desperately needed aid to the nearly half a million Gazans facing famine-like conditions. It may have relied on TV to get there, but to anyone who has watched the crisis reach what has long been predicted—mass starvation and death—Trump’s acknowledgment begs the question: Why not do something? The president of the United States has several powerful options that could restrain Israel, including restricting arms transfers and supporting United Nations ceasefire resolutions. The same question applies to Democrats, including former President Barack Obama, who issued a bland statement about the horror while declining to mention Israel by name. All these politicians across the aisle see what is increasingly called a genocide. They admit to witnessing starvation. Why not do something? Up until now, there has been much hiding behind the idea of the moderate stance, the obvious acknowledgement that there are difficult realities on both sides. That this was a complex, decades-long problem. But that, too, has fallen as even prominent Israeli human rights groups today accuse Israel of genocide with direct and scathing language. “Mass killing, both in direct attacks and through creating catastrophic living conditions that continue to raise the massive death toll, ” is how the B’Tselem, one of the two groups, outlined Israel’s actions in Gaza. “Serious bodily or mental harm to the entire population of the Strip; large-scale destruction of infrastructure; and destruction of the social fabric, including educational institutions and Palestinian cultural sites.” Speaking to reporters from his Scottish golf course, Trump did what all American politicians have done for years. He played a learned helplessness, refusing to acknowledge the deeper choices that starve Gazans instead opting to blame Iran and shrug off “the whole place” as a “mess.” “We gave $60 million two weeks ago, and nobody even acknowledged it,” he complained from his Scottish golf course on Sunday. “You really want at least someone to say ‘thank you.’ No other country gave anything. It makes you feel a little bad when nobody talks about it.” He repeated the complaint on Monday, too. This is Trump’s unvarnished opinion as Gazans die in mass. That the US is the victim. That he is owed a personal note of gratitude. None of this is a surprise coming from Trump. But what should haunt us is how familiar it all seems. Because absent the casual indifference, Trump is saying what every US politician has said for two years: Yes, we see the pain—the starving kids—but we won’t do anything about it. It’s a variation on a cruel theme. Looking for news you can trust? Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now BEFORE YOU CLICK AWAY! “Lying.” “Disgusting.” “Scum.” “Slime.” “Corrupt.” “Enemy of the people.” Donald Trump has always made clear what he thinks of journalists. And it’s plain now that his administration intends to do everything it can to stop journalists from reporting things they don’t like—which is most things that are true. No one gets to tell Mother Jones what to publish or not publish, because no one owns our fiercely independent newsroom. But that also means we need to directly raise the resources it takes to keep our journalism alive. There’s only one way for that to happen, and it’s readers like you stepping up. Please help with a donation today if you can—even a few bucks will make a real difference. A monthly gift would be incredible. Donate Now Related The CDC Shooter Was Obsessed With Vaccine Conspiracy Theories. RFK Jr. Was Predictably Slow to Respond. Samantha Michaels Trump’s Defense Secretary Seems to Admire Men Who Want to Stop Women From Voting Samantha Michaels She Ate a Poppy Seed Salad. Child Services Took Her Baby. Reveal Trump’s Energy Chief, a Former Fracking CEO, Aims to Tinker With Key Climate Reports Mark Oliver We Recommend Why Evangelicals Couldn’t Care Less About Trump’s Epstein Scandal The Reverend Rob Schenck “It’s Not Just a Texas Problem. It’s an American Problem.” Tim Murphy Relentless Climate Disasters Are Wiping Out Local Businesses Tik Root “What They Did There Was Torture Us” Noah Lanard and Isabela Dias Latest Wheelchair Users Are Finally Winning the Right to Repair Julia Métraux A Doctor in Gaza Describes the Horror of Starvation Najib Aminy South Park Comes for Kristi Noem and ICE Arianna Coghill ICE Is Extremely Desperate for You to Work for Them Julianne McShane Sign up for our free newsletter Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox. Close Thank you for subscribing! F48CB By signing up, you agree to our privacy policy and terms of use, and to receive messages from Mother Jones and our partners. Get our award-winning magazine Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. Subscribe Support our journalism Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation. Donate RHC membership for blog posts view comments