Stephen Colbert Has Epic Response To Trump's Attack On His Show
Stephen Colbert Has Epic Response To Trump's Latest Attack On His Show The "Late Show" host turned the president's insults into a new promo. By Ed Mazza Deputy Editor, Trends, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 01:24 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING “Late Show” host Stephen Colbert on Thursday turned President Donald Trump’s latest attack on his show into a mock promotional spot. Trump earlier in the week tore into Colbert and fellow late night hosts Jimmy Kimmel and Jimmy Fallon. Advertisement “Colbert has no talent,” the president said. “Fallon has no talent. Kimmel has no talent.” Trump has been celebrating last month’s announcement that Colbert’s show would be canceled and, on Wednesday, predicted that the two Jimmys will be “next” because “Colbert has better ratings than Kimmel or Fallon, you know that.” “I knew that,” Colbert agreed with the president, but also defended his late night colleagues: “To be fair, I think we’re all equally untalented.” But he also had a surprise for the president. “Thank you for watching, sir,” he said. “And thank you for agreeing to be in our new promo.” He rolled a new mock promo clip for “The Late Show” celebrating his ratings. “Stephen Colbert is number one in late night,” the voice in the ad stated. “Just ask our elderly viewers.” Advertisement That led to the clip of the president noting Colbert’s ratings. “Everyone’s watching,” the promo pointed out, adding: “Still canceled.” Colbert’s show was canceled last month as CBS parent company Paramount attempted to complete a merger that required federal approval. Given Trump’s open hatred of the show, critics said the company was trying to win Trump’s favor to help the deal pass Federal Communications Commission muster. The company also paid Trump $16 million to settle a lawsuit that most legal observers believed was without merit. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Check it out in the Thursday night “Late Show” monologue: Advertisement Related Donald Trump Stephen Colbert Jimmy Kimmel Jimmy Fallon The Late Show Trump Celebrates 'Late Show' Cancelation: 'I Absolutely Love That Colbert Got Fired' 'They Are Next': Trump Sends Chilling Warning To Jimmy Kimmel, Other Hosts Trump Is Mad People Are Linking Him To 'Late Show' Cancellation Defiant Stephen Colbert Fires Back At Trump With 3 Extremely Blunt Words Jimmy Kimmel Hilariously Trounces Trump With His Own Alleged Words Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post