Kristi Noem Has The Most 'Petty' Response To Brutal 'South Park' Roast
Kristi Noem Has The Most 'Petty' Response To Brutal 'South Park' Roast The homeland security secretary admitted she didn't watch this week's episode before taking aim at the animated show anyway. By Ben Blanchet Aug 8, 2025, 12:07 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem responded to “South Park” on Thursday, ignoring most of the animated show’s all-out, brutal roast of her to instead focus on one thing: her character’s looks. Noem — whose dog-killing scandal and charge on the Trump administration’s aggressive deportation efforts were subjected to parody — told Glenn Beck that she didn’t watch the episode before suggesting she was aware of jabs about her appearance, nonetheless. Advertisement “It never ends. But it’s so lazy to just constantly make fun of women for how they look. It’s always the liberals and extremists [who] do that,” Noem told Beck on his podcast. “If they wanted to criticize my job, go ahead and do that, but clearly they can’t. They just pick something petty like that.” Noem’s argument comes despite President Donald Trump’s long history of attacking women for their looks with descriptions like “horseface” and “pig.” Advertisement “South Park” notably criticized Noem’s work in the new episode, specifically slamming raids conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The episode sees Mr. Mackey losing his job as an elementary school counselor before joining ICE. The show heavily mocks the agency’s recruitment as well as training practices and turns attention to Noem, who calls for a raid of a “Dora the Explorer Live!” show and even participates in a raid at heaven’s gates. She also repeatedly shoots and kills puppies, including Krypto from the new “Superman” movie, as well as a service dog. Advertisement Another running gag features Noem’s face repeatedly sagging — and, in some cases, falling completely off — only to be swiftly fixed with “botox” applied by a makeup crew. “A few years ago, I had to put my puppy down by shooting it in the face because sometimes doing what’s important means doing what’s hard,” her character says in an ICE recruitment video before she’s seen shooting a pup on the street. “Now we’ll ask the same determination of you because detaining and questioning people is never easy!” Advertisement Noem on South Park: It’s so lazy to just constantly make fun of women for how they look. It’s only the liberals and the extremists who do that. If they wanted to criticize my job, go ahead and do that, but clearly they can’t. pic.twitter.com/pl6dMqr0dA — Acyn (@Acyn) August 7, 2025 The Department of Homeland Security, which used a screenshot from a “South Park” promo video for ICE recruitment purposes earlier in the week, has been silent since the episode aired Wednesday. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. The show, in response to the post on X, used the White House’s words against the department: “Wait, so we ARE relevant? #eatabagofdicks” Advertisement “South Park” isn’t letting up on Noem, either, as the show currently uses a screenshot of her droopy-faced character as its profile picture on X. Related Donald Trump U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Kristi Noem Department of Homeland Security South Park MAGA Personality Roasted For Thinking Comparison To 'South Park' Character Is A Compliment JD Vance Mocked For His Weird Response To 'South Park' Humiliation 'South Park' Blasts Trump Administration So Hard, Even Heaven Gets ICE’d Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post