'Very, Very, Very Confident' James Carville's Bold Prediction Is A Warning For Trump
'Very, Very, Very Confident': James Carville's Bold Prediction Is A Warning For Trump The Democratic strategist said voters are going to reject the president in a big way in the upcoming elections. By Ed Mazza Deputy Editor, Trends, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 11:55 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Longtime Democratic strategist James Carville on Thursday warned Republicans that they’re going to pay a heavy price at the ballot box this year and next because of President Donald Trump’s unpopularity. “I’m very, very, very confident that this administration is gonna be widely rejected in the elections coming up,” he told SiriusXM host Dan Abrams. “And they’re gonna be particularly widely rejected in the elections in 2026.” Advertisement The prediction came as the two debated a prediction Carville made in February: that the administration would suffer a “massive collapse” in public opinion within 30 days. Carville insisted he was right, saying Trump now has a 37-40% approval rating with “terrible” marks for the economy. “I think it’s collapsing now,” he said. “It is collapsing right in front of you.” Abrams had pointed to poll aggregations from The New York Times and RealClearPolitics showing Trump with an approval rating of 44-45.8% and a disapproval rating of 51.4-53%. Advertisement “That’s not a collapse,” Abrams said. “That’s basically a little bit above where he was.” Carville argued that the special elections held this year bear him out more than those polls. “I see something completely different,” he told Abrams. Democrats this year have outperformed former Vice President Kamala Harris’ 2024 numbers during many of the special elections held so far. “I think we’re we’re running away with every election we’ve had,” he told Abrams, then pointed to two states with gubernatorial elections this year: “We’re going to run away with Virginia. We’re going to win New Jersey.” In 16 special elections held in the first months of the year, Democrats outperformed their 2024 margins by an average of 11.5%, NBC News reported in April. In June, Democrats beat expectations in five of six special elections, according to data journalist G. Elliott Morris. Advertisement Morris noted this week on Bluesky that Democrats are 2.6% ahead of Republicans in generic ballot polls, which is “ahead of pace for the average out-party at this point in midterm election cycles since 2006.” And CNN data analyst Harry Enten said Trump himself is almost historically unpopular. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “If we are comparing him to other presidents at this point in their presidencies, he is the second lowest on record compared only to himself, who does worse,” he said Tuesday. “If we’re comparing him to other second terms, he’s certainly in the bottom of the list” aside from Richard Nixon, who was in a “worse” position. See more of Carville’s conversation with Abrams below: Advertisement Related Donald Trump kamala harris james carville Harry Enten Dan Abrams James Carville Predicts Exact Date Trump Will Face ‘Massive Collapse’ In Support James Carville Makes Bold Election Prediction: ‘I’m Doubling Down On That’ James Carville Fears Election Tampering From Trump: 'I Don't Put Anything Past Him' James Carville Explains His Wrong Prediction About The Presidential Election 'Scared To Death': Democratic Strategist James Carville 'Very Concerned' About 2024 Election Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post