Trump ousts Billy Long, his handpicked IRS director, after just 53 days on the job
Aug. 8, 2025, 3:52 PM EDT / Updated Aug. 8, 2025, 4:55 PM EDT By Steve Benen Among the many issues that have plagued the Internal Revenue Service in recent months is the revolving door at the commissioner’s office: Between January and May, the tax agency went through five different chiefs in five months. The revolving door appeared likely to stop after Senate Republicans overlooked former Rep. Billy Long’s controversial background to confirm him as the new IRS commissioner. Exactly three weeks ago, Donald Trump — who picked Long despite his complete lack of qualifications — held a ceremonial swearing-in ceremony for the Missouri Republican in the Oval Office. It was a provocative move in its own right: Since Watergate, presidents from both parties have taken a hands-off attitude toward the IRS, treating it as an apolitical and largely independent agency. The incumbent president, in contrast, seemed eager to signal his control over the IRS. Just 21 days after that White House event, Trump has apparently decided it is time for a new commissioner. The New York Times reported: President Trump is removing Billy Long from his job leading the Internal Revenue Service just two months after he was confirmed as commissioner, according to four people familiar with the matter. Mr. Long, a former Republican congressman and staunch ally of Mr. Trump, is expected to be nominated to an ambassadorship, the people said. The Times’ report, which has been verified by NBC News, added that Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent — who ostensibly already has a full-time job — will serve as acting IRS commissioner for a while. For those keeping score, Senate Republicans confirmed Long on June 12, and he formally took the office on June 16, which means he lasted just 53 days — or in the parlance, roughly five Scaramuccis. It’s unlikely that Senate Democrats, who tried to derail Long’s nomination, will be sorry to see him go. After all, during his tenure in the U.S. House, he repeatedly sponsored legislation to eliminate the agency he was later tapped to lead. What’s more, The New York Times reported late last year that Long has a problematic record of peddling a pandemic-era tax credit that the IRS warned was “a magnet for fraud.” Long’s record was so controversial that Senate Democrats suggested he face a criminal investigation. For his part, Long told NBC News he'll soon be nominated to serve as the U.S. ambassador to Iceland, which will also require Senate confirmation. As for why the president, who's appeared eager to sic the IRS on his perceived political foes, decided to oust Long so quickly, the story is still coming into focus. For now, the motivation behind the developments are a mystery, though it’s unlikely to remain a mystery for long. Watch this space. This post, which updates our related earlier coverage, has been revised to reflect Long's upcoming ambassadorial nomination. Steve Benen Steve Benen is a producer for "The Rachel Maddow Show," the editor of MaddowBlog and an MSNBC political contributor. He's also the bestselling author of "Ministry of Truth: Democracy, Reality, and the Republicans' War on the Recent Past." Previous Post Pam Bondi finds a new job for Ed Martin: ‘special attorney’ pursuing some Trump foes Latest Post Friday’s Mini-Report, 8.8.25