CNN Data Chief Says This Republican Has 'Gosh Darn Good' Odds To Be 2028 GOP Nominee
CNN Data Chief Says This Republican Has 'Gosh Darn Good' Odds To Be 2028 GOP Nominee Harry Enten spotted how the GOP leader is the overwhelming favorite to go "all the way" to the next presidential election. By Ben Blanchet Aug 7, 2025, 09:50 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING CNN’s chief data analyst Harry Enten on Thursday spotted how Vice President JD Vance is the overwhelming favorite to become the 2028 GOP presidential nominee. “It looks pretty gosh darn good — or pretty, pretty good — for the man from Ohio,” said Enten in a segment with CNN’s Kate Bolduan. Advertisement Vance — who President Donald Trump described as being “most likely” to be the “heir apparent” to the MAGA throne this week — has taken on a “good fireman”-like role in the administration, one Trump ally told CNN on Thursday. Once a self-described “Never Trump guy,” those in Trump’s circle have been impressed by Vance’s “behind-the-scenes efforts to speed the president’s priorities” and foresee the 2028 nomination as his for the taking, per CNN. Enten turned to early 2028 polling (excluding the current president) that shows Vance on top with 40% support, while Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and Donald Trump Jr. trail behind him at 8% and 7%, respectively. Advertisement Since 1980, 63% of early favorites who ran in incumbent-less presidential elections have won the nomination, Enten noted. He added that the last five sitting veeps to run for president — Richard Nixon (1960 election), Hubert Humphrey (1968 election), George H.W. Bush (1988 election), Al Gore (2000 election) and Kamala Harris (2024 election) — all became their party’s nominee. “Historically speaking, if JD Vance gets in this fight and he’s the sitting vice president, the history books say, ‘Hey, he’s got a pretty gosh darn chance of going all the way,’ at least to the general election, because five out of five,” he said. Advertisement If Trump decides to get behind his veep, it could work in Vance’s favor, Enten argued. At least 95% of Trump’s endorsees in congressional and gubernatorial races since 2020 have resulted in that candidate winning the GOP primary, per Enten. “At this point, things all seem to be coming up for JD,” he said. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. H/T: Mediaite Related Republican Party CNN j.d. vance Harry Enten 2028 elections Trump Wants To Put Crypto In Your 401(k) Trump Administration Asks Supreme Court To Lift Restrictions On Southern California Immigration Stops Trump’s Sleight-Of-Hand On The Jeffrey Epstein Scandal Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post