Former ‘Superman’ actor Dean Cain says he’s joining ICE ‘ASAP’ to ‘save America’
Aug. 7, 2025, 5:12 PM EDT By Allison Detzel U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s recruitment push appears to have brought in at least one new high-profile agent: actor Dean Cain, best known for playing Superman in the 1990s television series “Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman.” Cain, a vocal supporter of Donald Trump, made the announcement Wednesday in a video posted to Instagram. “I felt it was important to join with our first responders to help secure the safety of all Americans, not just talk about it,” he said. The 59-year-old praised the Trump administration’s mass deportation efforts, even as public support continues to decline, with many questioning ICE’s tactics. The agency has carried out large raids on workplaces and sent masked agents to arrest immigrants at court hearings and routine appointments. Videos of agents violently arresting suspected migrants have also gone viral. In the Instagram video, the actor encouraged his followers to follow his lead and join the agency: “If you want to help save America, ICE is arresting the worst of the worst and removing them from America’s streets. I like that. I voted for that.” (CBS News reported at the end of June that, according to government figures, only 8% of those detained since Trump took office have a conviction for a violent crime.) “You can defend your homeland and get great benefits,” Cain said, listing new incentives rolled out by the administration as part of its push to recruit ICE officers, such as signing bonuses and what he referred to as “legal” student loan repayment. Cain, who is already a sworn deputy sheriff and reserve police officer, elaborated on his decision to join ICE during an interview with Fox News’ Jesse Watters. “This country was built on patriots stepping up, whether it was popular or not, and doing the right thing. I truly believe this is the right thing,” Cain said Wednesday evening. The actor told Watters he would be “sworn in as an ICE agent ASAP.” DHS spokesperson Tricia McLaughlin confirmed to KTLA that Cain would be sworn in. Cain’s announcement came shortly after Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said ICE would waive age limits for new applicants and allow people older than 40 to join. The agency has been desperately trying to boost recruitment to keep up with the administration's deportation goals, after Congress passed Trump’s spending bill, which allocated billions in funding for the hiring of 10,000 additional agents. Allison Detzel Allison Detzel is an editor/producer for MSNBC Digital. Previous Post ICE ramps up recruitment blitz as Trump fires dozens of immigration judges Next Post Republicans can run from their voters, but they can’t hide Latest Post ‘Back the hell up’: Michael Steele takes on Trump over his threats to federalize D.C.