Trump Wildly Claims Wall Street Journal And China Are In Cahoots Amid Epstein Lawsuit
Trump Wildly Claims Wall Street Journal And China Are In Cahoots Amid Epstein Lawsuit The POTUS also attacked the “Crooked, Radical Left Judges" in his heated message. By Jazmin Tolliver Trends Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 08:59 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING President Donald Trump alleged in a bizarre rant Thursday that The Wall Street Journal wants to see China “WIN, BABY, WIN.” “The reason that The Wall Street Journal Editorial Board is always negative on ‘TRUMP,’ and the Hundreds of Billions of Dollars we’re bringing into our Country through Tariffs, numbers that the U.S.A. has never seen before, is because they are China centric or, at a minimum, Globalists, and they would rather see China and the World, for reasons unknown, “WIN, BABY, WIN,” the POTUS wrote in a Truth Social post. Advertisement Trump then insisted that if “the United States were not able to charge Tariffs to other Countries, it would be Economically defenseless and, of no further force or effect. The only thing that can destroy our Country are Crooked, Radical Left Judges, of which there are many!” The president has faced scrutiny over his sweeping global tariffs, which went into effect Thursday, subsequently raising the prices of household goods for Americans. The tariffs are projected to affect imports from more than 60 countries. The WSJ — which has grilled the president’s efforts during his second term in office — and Trump have been embroiled in an ongoing feud. Advertisement The dispute ignited further after the outlet published a report about an alleged, racy birthday card that Trump sent to convicted sex offender and disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein in 2003. The letter was said to contain a drawing of a naked woman and a strange message about secrets, according to the WSJ. Trump, who is suing the WSJ over its report on the letter, has denied writing the letter. “I never wrote a picture in my life. I don’t draw pictures of women,” he told the Journal. “It’s not my language. It’s not my words.” Advertisement The president added: “I’m gonna sue The Wall Street Journal just like I sued everyone else.” Trump further slammed the WSJ over their report in a separate Truth Social post, calling the article a “false, malicious, and defamatory story.” Related Donald Trump Wall Street Journal Trump Fires Back At Reporters Over 'Bulls**t' Epstein Question Trump Lashes Out At ‘Racist Sleazebag' Charlamagne Tha God After Epstein-MAGA Comment Trump’s Sleight-Of-Hand On The Jeffrey Epstein Scandal Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post