Nicolle Wallace warns that angry GOP town halls could be a harbinger for midterms
Aug. 6, 2025, 12:43 PM EDT By Allison Detzel On Monday, Republican Rep. Mike Flood was met with jeers and boos during a chaotic town hall in Lincoln, Nebraska, as the lawmaker attempted to sell Donald Trump’s unpopular agenda to a crowd of his usually reliable conservative constituents. On Tuesday’s “Deadline: White House,” Nicolle Wallace shared clips from Flood’s disastrous face-to-face with voters, during which she said constituents “took him to task over and over.” For 87 minutes, the Republican, who won his district by more than 20 points last year, faced questions about the party’s massive spending bill and its drastic cuts to Medicaid, Trump’s recent firing of the Bureau of Labor Statistics commissioner and the administration’s handling of the Jeffrey Epstein probe. The event ended with the crowd heckling Flood, chanting “Vote him out!” as he exited the stage. “That’s about how it’s going to be a Republican right now in America — not just in America, but in ruby-red Nebraska,” Wallace said, adding that Flood’s voters “are not happy with the Republican brand, the Republican Party, the Republican representative, and his practice of blindly rubber-stamping all of Donald Trump’s policies and practices, especially the parts that undermine American democracy.” But according to Wallace, the Republican Party’s issues are much deeper than a single town hall in one district of Nebraska: “What we saw is symptomatic of a larger dynamic all across the country. The party in power, the Republican Party, and the president who leads it, Donald Trump, are deeply, deeply unpopular in deep-red parts of the country.” Wallace advised Republicans to take their unpopularity seriously, warning that it could cost them when voters return to the ballot box next November. “What we saw could be a harbinger for next year’s midterm elections,” she said. You can watch Wallace’s full analysis in the clip at the top of the page. Allison Detzel Allison Detzel is an editor/producer for MSNBC Digital. Previous Post 5 soldiers injured in Georgia Army base shooting, suspect apprehended Next Post Jen Psaki rips Pam Bondi’s ‘desperate’ probe into Obama officials over 2016 election Latest Post ‘Back the hell up’: Michael Steele takes on Trump over his threats to federalize D.C.