Texas Millionaire Rancher Gorged To Death By Buffalo During South African Hunting Safari
Texas Millionaire Rancher Gored To Death By Buffalo During South African Hunting Safari The safari company said he was killed in an "unprovoked attack." By Jazmin Tolliver Trends Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 07:35 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING A millionaire Texas rancher and big game hunter was killed after a Cape buffalo he was tracking attacked him during a hunting trip in South Africa, according to multiple reports. Asher Watkins, 52, was on a guided safari hosted by Coenraad Vermaak Safaris in South Africa’s Limpopo Province on Aug. 3 when the animal fatally gored him, the safari company said Thursday in a statement obtained by multiple outlets. Advertisement Hans Vermaak, the head of Coenraad Vermaak Safaris, confirmed Watkins’ death on behalf of the company in the statement. “It is with deep sadness and heavy hearts we confirm the tragic death of our client and friend Asher Watkins from the USA,” Vermaak said. Vermaak called the deadly attack by the unwounded buffalo “sudden and unprovoked.” The buffalo reportedly weighed 1.3-ton. Advertisement “He was tracking it together with one of our professional hunters and one of our trackers. This is a devastating incident, and our hearts go out to his loved ones,” Vermaak continued. “We are doing everything we can to support the family members who are here with us and those back in the United States as they navigate this tragic loss.” Vermaak noted that “the family and our team members who were present at the time are understandably shaken” by the “deeply traumatic incident.” The Cape buffalo is considered “the most dangerous animal to pursue in Africa, let alone the world,” and the animal causes “several deaths and many injuries to hunters each year,” according to the safari company’s website. Advertisement The website also noted that Cape buffalos are “known to charge unprovoked.” Watkins founded and managed the Watkins Ranch Group, a Dallas-based firm trading that specializes in luxury ranch properties across Texas and other states. South African authorities are investigating Watkins’ death. Related South Africa hunting Missouri Patient Tests Positive For Bird Flu Despite No Known Exposure To Animals Man Busted For Animal Cruelty So Extreme That Cop Said He Had To Gather Himself Woman Arrested, Has Pet Deer Confiscated After Officials Say She Kept Animal Illegally Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In U.S. News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post