Trump’s new tax, briefly explained
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. by Cameron Peters Aug 7, 2025, 10:30 PM UTC Facebook Link President Donald Trump gestures while answering questions from reporters as he tours the roof of the West Wing of the White House on August 5, 2025. Win McNamee/Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: It’s tariffs day, for real this time. President Donald Trump’s latest wave of tariffs, which will almost certainly raise prices for Americans, officially went into effect overnight. Who is Trump tariffing? Roughly half the world, or more than 90 countries. Some, like South Korea, struck trade deals with the administration and face a tariff rate of 15 percent (give or take depending on the country), while others, like Brazil, face rates of up to 50 percent. Overall, the average tariff rate on imported goods now stands at 18.6 percent — the highest in nearly a century, and far higher than the modern average of just 2 to 3 percent. What does that mean for me? For Americans, Trump’s tariffs are essentially a significant backdoor tax increase. The government is collecting revenue from the tariffs, but companies are passing those costs on to consumers. Some prices have already been creeping up in response to Trump’s earlier tariffs, and that will only continue now that broader tariffs are in place. What does this mean for the US economy? Nothing good. Even before today, the economy was in rough shape, largely propped up by the AI industry and hiring in the health care sector, while drifting toward stagflation. After today, things aren’t likely to get much better. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Why is Trump doing this? Trump’s understanding of trade and economics is fundamentally nonsense, as my colleague Eric Levitz has explained. That said, it seems like he might have something approaching a strategy: threaten catastrophic tariffs to bring countries to the table, and then settle on a 15 percent tariff and commitments to buy US goods or some other deal to give Trump the appearance of a win. Could this be reversed? It’s possible — though by no means certain — that Trump’s entire tariffs regime comes to a halt. A federal appeals court is currently considering their legality and, depending on how it rules, the Supreme Court could weigh in soon. And with that, it’s time to log off… Some exciting news from the world of baseball: Major League Baseball will have its first-ever female umpire this weekend, with Jen Pawol set to umpire a Miami Marlins-Atlanta Braves game on Saturday. It’s a major milestone for the league, coming 28 years after the first female referee in the NBA and a decade after the first female official in the NFL. And with that, have a lovely weekend — the newsletter will be off tomorrow, but I’ll see you back here on Monday. See More: Donald Trump Economy Money Politics The Logoff Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil The EPA gives up on climate change Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 28 The LogoffJul 28 Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The US and the EU reached a deal just days before Trump’s threatened deadline. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad