Taraji P. Henson Reveals Painful Moment Filming ‘Hidden Figures’
Taraji P. Henson Opens Up About A Painful Moment While Filming 'Hidden Figures' "Honestly, I was going through something very tragic in my life," Henson said. By CorEy Townsend Aug 7, 2025, 07:04 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Taraji P. Henson is getting vulnerable about a hard time in her life while she was shooting the 2016 film “Hidden Figures.” The Howard University alum, known for her roles in “The Color Purple” and the FX drama “Empire,” has worked to build a notable career. But the journey has sometimes been painful — as she revealed on Tuesday’s episode of the podcast “Legacy Talk With Lena Waithe.” Advertisement Octavia Spencer, Taraji P. Henson and Janelle Monáe pose in the press room at the 48th NAACP Image Awards at Pasadena Civic Auditorium on Feb. 11, 2017, in Pasadena, California. Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic In the episode, Waithe asks Henson how she felt delivering a pivotal monologue in “Hidden Figures” in which, as mathematician Katherine Goble Johnson, she explains to a supervisor played by Kevin Costner that her “long breaks” at work are caused by having to use a far-away segregated bathroom. Her character revealed how racism directly affected her ability to perform. “Honestly, I was going through something very tragic in my life. A loved one of mine was suffering, and we were trying to keep them alive,” Henson revealed. Advertisement At the time, the actor said, she’d instructed her makeup artist to “keep them on the line” and to “not let them hang up.” “I said, ‘And we have to figure out if we call 911, if the cops show up, they might shoot them. We want the paramedics to show up,’” she said. “So, I’m dealing with that. I’m running down the hall ’cause I’m trying to be out of earshot so no one hears. So I’m running down the hall in between takes to keep the person on the phone, and I’m running back to do the scene. This is going on that entire scene.” Taraji P. Henson attends the Glamour Women of the Year event on Oct. 8, 2024, in New York City. Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for Glamour Advertisement Henson described filming the monologue as an out-of-body experience shaped by the emotional stress she was under. “I was present. I did it. And then as soon as they yelled ‘cut,’ I was running back down the hall,” Henson recalled. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. The actor starred alongside Octavia Spencer (who played mathematician Dorothy Vaughan) and Janelle Monáe (who played engineer Mary Jackson) in the film, portraying three real-life African American women who worked at NASA during the space race — and helped launch the United States into orbit. Advertisement If you or someone you know needs help, call or text 988 or chat 988lifeline.org for mental health support. Additionally, you can find local mental health and crisis resources at dontcallthepolice.com. Outside of the U.S., please visit the International Association for Suicide Prevention. Related Mental Health taraji p henson hidden figures Taraji P. Henson Shares The Personal Reason She Took Her Latest Acting Role Taraji P. Henson On Why She Made Sure Project 2025 Would Go Viral Taraji P. Henson Made A Pretty Embarrassing Mistake At The BET Awards Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post