RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. by Cameron Peters Aug 6, 2025, 9:05 PM UTC Facebook Link Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Donald Trump shake hands during a campaign rally in Glendale, Arizona, on August 23, 2024. Rebecca Noble/Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: In a blow to US pandemic preparedness, Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. announced on Tuesday evening that he was slashing $500 million in federal mRNA vaccine contracts. What is HHS cutting? Twenty-two mRNA vaccine projects, intended to combat respiratory viruses like bird flu, are set to be wound down following the announcement. What is mRNA? mRNA, or messenger RNA, is the reason the US had safe, effective Covid-19 vaccines available as early as it did. A promising but still unproven technology prior to the pandemic, mRNA allowed pharmaceutical companies to develop effective vaccines far more rapidly and more adaptably than was once possible. Beyond respiratory viruses like Covid, researchers hope mRNA could even be effective in treating cancers. What’s the context? Kennedy has long made false claims about mRNA vaccines, including describing the Covid-19 vaccine as “the deadliest vaccine ever made.” On Tuesday, he falsely stated that mRNA vaccines “don’t perform well against viruses that infect the upper respiratory tract,” such as Covid. In fact, by one estimate, the Covid vaccines saved some 2.5 million lives. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. What are the implications of the cuts? Tuesday’s announcement is bad news for two distinct reasons. As far as Kennedy is concerned, this is just the latest reminder that he is who he always appeared to be, and only partially covered up while seeking to be confirmed as the secretary for the US Department of Health and Human Services: not a fair “skeptic” but an anti-vaccine advocate who will use his power to impose unscientific beliefs on US public health infrastructure. For the country, vaccine experts say Tuesday’s news is a real blow to efforts to prepare for the next pandemic, the arrival of which is a question of when and not if. mRNA vaccines have proved to be one of our best tools for saving lives, and the US will now be further behind in developing new vaccines than it otherwise would be. The consequence is likely to be measured in human lives. And with that, it’s time to log off… mRNA vaccines are just one recent example of the miracle of modern medicine — another is this story from the New York Times, about new treatments for cardiac amyloidosis, a type of heart failure. The disease was once overwhelmingly fatal, but several recently approved drugs are changing that, reducing mortality by 25 percent or more. Another drug, still in development, could even help reverse the disease’s progress, rather than merely stopping its advance. I think that’s pretty hopeful — thanks for reading, and we’ll see you back here tomorrow! See More: Donald Trump Health Politics Public Health The Logoff Vaccines Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil The EPA gives up on climate change Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 28 The LogoffJul 28 Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The US and the EU reached a deal just days before Trump’s threatened deadline. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad