The Trump-Texas redistricting mess, briefly explained
Politics The Trump-Texas redistricting mess, briefly explained How Texas is trying to boost the GOP next year. by Christian Paz Aug 6, 2025, 5:30 PM UTC Facebook Link If enough Democrats refused to participate in the special session, per parliamentary rules, the Texas House can’t meet. Brandon Bell/Getty Images Christian Paz is a senior politics reporter at Vox, where he covers the Democratic Party. He joined Vox in 2022 after reporting on national and international politics for the Atlantic’s politics, global, and ideas teams, including the role of Latino voters in the 2020 election. A political showdown is unfolding in Texas, where state Republican lawmakers are trying to game the system to give their national party an advantage in next year’s midterm elections. They’ve hit a temporary roadblock, for now. But the whole gambit has huge national implications. If you’re just tuning in, a quick summary: In July, President Donald Trump told reporters that he wanted lawmakers in Texas to redraw the state’s congressional districts to flip five currently Democratic-held seats in Republicans’ favor. Redrawing congressional maps, known as redistricting, usually happens every decade across the country, after the US Census has collected the most recent demographic information in each state and maps can be drawn to better represent each state’s population. Trump’s middle-of-the-decade demand of Texas is brazenly political — a form of gerrymandering that has happened very rarely before (most recently in 2004). Related The electoral arms race between Texas and California, explained How Republicans are trying to redistrict their way to a majority In Texas, where the state legislature has the power to draw congressional districts, Republicans control the governor’s office and have majorities in both chambers of the legislature. An additional five seats would boost the current GOP majority, or offset losses during next year’s elections. Currently, Republicans control the House 219-212, but when all vacancies are filled, that becomes 220-215. A party needs 218 seats for a majority, so these new seats would give Trump more leeway to pass legislation in the second half of his term. Late last month, Gov. Greg Abbott followed through on Trump’s demand, calling the legislature back for a special session to vote on new maps. And just last week, the proposed map was released, revealing five new Republican-leaning seats in South Texas and the Austin, Dallas, and Houston metro areas. In response, Texas Democrats did all they could do: first rallying Democrats across the country to pay attention to the GOP’s gerrymandering attempt, and ultimately fleeing the state entirely. If enough Democrats refused to participate in the special session, per parliamentary rules, the Texas House can’t meet. Over the weekend, more than 50 Democratic state lawmakers flew to Illinois, Massachusetts, and New York to deny a quorum and halt the process temporarily. For now, the plan is for them to remain out of state for the next few weeks, when the special session is scheduled to end. Things become a little hazier then. The governor can technically call an unlimited number of special sessions, meaning Texas Democrats might have to repeat this process until the end of the year. And for every day that these lawmakers miss a vote, they’re racking up a $500 fine per person. The latest development is that the Texas House has voted to issue “civil warrants,” empowering law enforcement to detain the absent lawmakers and bring them to the state capitol. It’s a largely symbolic act, since this authority only applies within Texas. At the same time, Abbott has threatened to expel and replace the lawmakers — but this threat doesn’t seem to have a firm legal grounding, and would require overcoming tremendous practical challenges, like filing individual lawsuits against each missing lawmaker and holding new elections, according to the Texas Tribune. None of this has stopped Trump from pressuring other states to follow suit, including Missouri, Ohio, and, more recently, Indiana. Democrats, meanwhile, have responded with their own threats to further gerrymander states like California, Maryland, or New York. While Texas is at a standstill, the national implications are still unfolding. See More: Donald Trump Politics Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Politics Podcast The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Trump’s new tax, briefly explained The Texas gerrymandering showdown is about to get even messier Israel’s Gaza policy is viciously cruel — and strategically disastrous Trump actually has a tariff strategy this time. It could still go terribly wrong. Trump’s tariffs hurt the working class. Why are some unions on board? Today, Explained podcastAug 8 Podcast Today, Explained podcastAug 8 The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. How the right-wing network PragerU could fill the void left by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting’s defunding. By Sean Rameswaram The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters PoliticsAug 7 PoliticsAug 7 The Texas gerrymandering showdown is about to get even messier Democrats and Republicans are both escalating. By Sean Rameswaram World PoliticsAug 7 World PoliticsAug 7 Israel’s Gaza policy is viciously cruel — and strategically disastrous Through starving Gaza, and potentially reocuppying it, Netanyahu has brutalized Palestinians and harmed his own country’s interests.﻿ By Zack Beauchamp PoliticsAug 7 PoliticsAug 7 Trump actually has a tariff strategy this time. It could still go terribly wrong. There’s a method to his trade war madness. But major economic and legal risks remain. By Andrew Prokop PoliticsAug 7 PoliticsAug 7 Trump’s tariffs hurt the working class. Why are some unions on board? The president’s economic policy has put unions in an awkward position. By Abdallah Fayyad Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad