Did we just lose $7 billion for solar
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. by Cameron Peters and Paige Vega Aug 5, 2025, 10:50 PM UTC Facebook Link Solar panels on the roof of a home in Pasadena, California, on February 25, 2025.﻿ Mario Tama/Getty Images This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: The Trump administration plans to claw back some $7 billion in grant funding for solar energy, its latest attack on renewable energy in the US. What are the grants for? The money the administration is targeting is intended to help with solar panel installation for low- and middle-income households and has been awarded to 60 entities, including 49 state agencies, as part of the Solar for All program. The program is a legacy of the Inflation Reduction Act, the 2022 law that dedicated nearly $370 billion to clean energy, electric vehicle tax breaks, and more. Can the administration do this? We’re going to find out. While Congress successfully clawed back money from unobligated Solar for All grants in last month’s recissions package, this funding has already been awarded. That makes terminating the grants less straightforward, and the move is likely to be challenged in lawsuits. The New York Times reported that grant cancellation notices could be sent out as soon as this week. How else is the administration going after clean energy? It’s a long list. To name a few, the Environmental Protection Agency attempted to cancel an additional $20 billion in already-awarded climate grants earlier this year, only to be blocked by a federal judge, and Trump’s reconciliation package cut clean energy subsidies and electric vehicle tax credits while adding new subsidies for coal power. What’s the big picture? This latest attack on solar power, and the administration’s broader assault on renewables, is bad news for efforts to move away from fossil fuels and advance a more sustainable future. But the bigger picture is still optimistic. Renewable energy buildout around the world is still strong, and even in the US, there’s a lot of inertia behind the ongoing transition. Clean energy expansion will continue — despite all of the antagonistic policies coming out of the Trump administration. And with that, it’s time to log off… Here’s some good news from my colleague Kenny Torrella: The fur industry is collapsing worldwide, and the number of animals farmed and killed for their fur has plummeted in the last decade, from around 140 million annually in 2014 to 20.5 million last year. As Kenny points out, more than 20 million animals dying per year means there’s still a long way to go — but such a steep decline is serious progress against an incredibly cruel industry, and it’s likely to continue from here. See More: Climate Donald Trump Energy Politics Renewable Energy Solar energy The Logoff Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil The EPA gives up on climate change Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 28 The LogoffJul 28 Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The US and the EU reached a deal just days before Trump’s threatened deadline. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad