Chris Appleton Breaks Silence On Split From ‘White Lotus’ Star After 6 Months Of Marriage
Chris Appleton Breaks Silence On Brief Marriage To ‘White Lotus’ Star Lukas Gage The celebrity hairstylist acknowledged he “was going through a lot of private pain” before splitting from Lukas Gage in 2023. By Curtis M. Wong Senior Culture Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 06:54 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Chris Appleton is opening up about his brief marriage to actor Lukas Gage a little more than a year after their divorce was finalized. The celebrity hairstylist, whose clients include Kim Kardashian and Jennifer Lopez, spoke about his split from Gage for the first time publicly in a Wednesday appearance on the “On Purpose with Jay Shetty” podcast. Advertisement “It was definitely the first time that I’d experienced that magnitude of people being so invested in my private life,” Appleton said. “I think people have this perception, from social media probably, [that] I have it together. I work with these amazing people. Life looks glamorous. So from the outside, it probably looks like I’ve got it all together. But the truth is, especially during that time, I was going through a lot of private pain.” He went on to note: “You can love someone and then not be a forever happy ending. I think you learn so much from it.” Appleton married Gage, best known for his portrayal of Dillon on the premiere season of HBO’s “The White Lotus,” in April 2023 after two months of dating. Their starry ceremony was officiated by Kardashian and featured a performance by Shania Twain. It was also captured for posterity in an episode of “The Kardashians” that aired that November. Advertisement Lukas Gage and Chris Appleton tied the knot in a starry 2023 ceremony featuring a performance by Shania Twain, but split six months later. Jared Siskin via Getty Images Less than a week after the episode premiered, however, Appleton split from Gage, citing “irreconcilable differences.” Their divorce was finalized in June 2024. Previously, Gage hinted that he couldn’t discuss many specifics of the divorce due to a non-disclosure agreement. Still, he’s described his decision to marry after such a brief romance as “one of the most unhinged things I’ve ever done in my life.” Advertisement “I had a manic episode for six months,” he said while appearing on Bravo’s “Watch What Happens Live” last year. “What happened to me? I don’t know, literally, what went through my head. But we live and we learn.” In his chat with Shetty, Appleton shrugged off the implication he’d agreed to tie the knot with Gage too quickly. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “Look, moving fast doesn’t always mean you’re reckless,” he said. “I think sometimes it means you’re hopeful. And I think any relationship I’ve ever been into, I’ve gone into with an open heart and I have no regrets about that.” Advertisement “I think we shame people too much for leading with an open heart,” he continued. “And I think the sad part about that ― especially when it doesn’t work out ― is you can learn to retract and protect yourself. But I would rather love and fall than to never feel anything at all.” Listen to Appleton’s “On Purpose with Jay Shetty” interview here. His comments on his split from Gage begin around the 54:53 mark. Related Marriage lukas gage Chris Appleton ‘Fire Island’ Star Joel Kim Booster Comes Clean About The Downside Of Shower Sex Shania Twain Reacts To Lukas Gage's Apology For 'Wasting Her Time' At His Wedding Zachary Quinto Is A 'Hot Zaddy' With An Eye For Lukas Gage In 'Down Low' Trailer Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post