Stephen Colbert Goes Scorched Earth On RFK Jr. In F-Bomb-Filled Tirade
Stephen Colbert Goes Scorched Earth On RFK Jr. In F-Bomb-Filled Tirade Clearly, the host of the canceled “Late Show” does not give AF anymore. By Elyse Wanshel Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 06:27 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING The FCC, CBS, Paramount and the Trump administration can suck it — or at least that was the sentiment on Wednesday night’s episode of “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” As usual, host Colbert tackled the day’s news in his opening monologue — but things took a turn into the unusual when Colbert responded to Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s announcement Tuesday that he’s canceling $500 million in funding for vaccine development. Advertisement “Bad news for fans of living,” Colbert began before explaining Kennedy’s announcement to his audience. “Now, we have 10 more months of this show, and I want to give a measured, nonpartisan response here: Fuck you, you roid-addled nepo carnie!” Colbert said while flipping the bird on network TV. Stephen Colbert and RFK Jr. Screenshot “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” via YouTube/Getty Advertisement After the audience erupted with applause, Colbert continued by explaining that Kennedy’s cuts were specifically aimed at 22 projects that are using mRNA technology to develop vaccines for respiratory viruses like COVID-19 and the flu. Infectious disease experts credit mRNA for slowing the 2020 coronavirus pandemic, The Associated Press reports. They say that mRNA is safe and failing to use the tech could result in difficulty quelling future pandemics. “I don’t think I’ve seen a more dangerous decision in public health in my 50 years in the business,” said Mike Osterholm, a University of Minnesota expert on infectious diseases and pandemic preparations, told the AP. Colbert then played a clip of Kennedy defending his decision, and when the clip ended, Colbert said: “Counterpoint: Fuck you, you roadkill-munching Luddite human Slim Jim!” Advertisement “You’re going to kill people!” Colbert added, noting the National Library of Medicine reported that an estimated 14.4 million deaths were prevented thanks to the vaccines developed during the 2020 coronavirus pandemic. Colbert’s F-bomb-filled tirade seems to be indicative of his general IDGAF attitude since he announced in July that CBS was canceling “The Late Show” and the decades-long “Late Show” franchise. The announcement that Colbert was getting the axe came shortly — and suspiciously — after CBS’ parent company Paramount settled a lawsuit with Trump over his claim that CBS News’ “60 Minutes” selectively edited an interview with 2024 Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris in the lead-up to the election. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. CORRECTION: This story has been amended to correct the name of Colbert’s show. Related Stephen Colbert the late show with stephen colbert U.S. Department of Health and Human Services rfk-jr Stephen Colbert Spots Moment RFK Jr. Hearing Flew Off The Rails In The Strangest Way Defiant Stephen Colbert Fires Back At Trump With 3 Extremely Blunt Words ‘Well On His Way’: Stephen Colbert Hits Trump With A Truly Sick Prediction Trump Celebrates 'Late Show' Cancelation: 'I Absolutely Love That Colbert Got Fired' Stephen Colbert Has Epic Response To Trump's Latest Attack On His Show Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post