The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger
Politics The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. by Andrew Prokop Aug 1, 2025, 9:05 PM UTC Facebook Link President Donald Trump speaks to the press before boarding Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House on August 1, 2025. Jim Watson/AFP via Getty Images Andrew Prokop is a senior politics correspondent at Vox, covering the White House, elections, and political scandals and investigations. He’s worked at Vox since the site’s launch in 2014, and before that, he worked as a research assistant at the New Yorker’s Washington, DC, bureau. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: The Trump administration got some ugly jobs numbers today — so the president fired the official in charge of those numbers, posing the ominous possibility that such numbers will be altered to Trump’s liking in the future. What happened? On Friday morning, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which is part of the Labor Department, released its latest employment numbers, and the news wasn’t good for the US economy. The US added 73,000 jobs in July, which was well below the 100,000 jobs economists had expected. But, even worse, the previously released jobs reports from May and June were revised dramatically downward. It turns out that, in those two months combined, the US added 258,000 fewer jobs than the BLS had initially thought. How did Trump react? Subsequent revisions to initial calculations are a normal and longstanding part of the messy process of collecting real-world economic data. But Trump has long insisted they are part of a politicized plot against him. When BLS released similar downward revisions in August 2024, Trump complained that the Biden administration was “caught fraudulently manipulating Job Statistics to hide the true extent of the Economic Ruin they have inflicted upon America.” Now, in a Truth Social post this afternoon, Trump announced he would fire BLS commissioner Erika McEntarfer. Trump deemed McEntarfer an untrustworthy “Biden appointee” (she was a career civil servant). He asserted that she “faked” the 2024 jobs numbers to help Biden and “RIGGED” the new job numbers to hurt Republicans. Will Trump cook jobs numbers in the future? This would seem to create an incentive for the next BLS commissioner to either “adjust” the jobs numbers to Trump’s liking — or be fired. Politicization of economic data is something that typically happens in authoritarian regimes or economic basket cases, and it would be a grim trend if it started happening here. That may be difficult to pull off in practice, though. “I don’t think Trump will be able to fake the data given the procedures,” Harvard economist Jason Furman wrote on X, though he acknowledged “there is now a risk.” Furthermore, there are many other economic statistics collected by the federal government, states, and businesses — so any effort to cover up the state of the US economy will be doomed to fail. (Which is why Trump’s initial conspiracy theories about the BLS under Biden made no sense.) What’s the bigger picture? Trump is continuing in his push to politicize every inch of the federal government — in keeping with the right-wing insistence that nonpartisan, technocratic experts can’t be trusted because they’re all liberals. Experts aren’t perfect — but if they get purged from the government, we’ll miss them when they’re gone. And with that, it’s time to log off… Tired of reading about corruption in the American government? Check out this report by the Wall Street Journal’s Hannah Miao about the “criminal enterprise of monkeys” robbing tourists blind in Bali. The monkeys have figured out that some human items, like phones, are more valuable and can be accordingly bartered back for more food. That is, they understand leverage and are skilled at the shakedown. Sound familiar? See More: Donald Trump Politics The Logoff Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Politics Podcast The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Trump’s new tax, briefly explained The Texas gerrymandering showdown is about to get even messier Israel’s Gaza policy is viciously cruel — and strategically disastrous Trump actually has a tariff strategy this time. It could still go terribly wrong. Trump’s tariffs hurt the working class. Why are some unions on board? Today, Explained podcastAug 8 Podcast Today, Explained podcastAug 8 The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. How the right-wing network PragerU could fill the void left by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting’s defunding. By Sean Rameswaram The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters PoliticsAug 7 PoliticsAug 7 The Texas gerrymandering showdown is about to get even messier Democrats and Republicans are both escalating. By Sean Rameswaram World PoliticsAug 7 World PoliticsAug 7 Israel’s Gaza policy is viciously cruel — and strategically disastrous Through starving Gaza, and potentially reocuppying it, Netanyahu has brutalized Palestinians and harmed his own country’s interests.﻿ By Zack Beauchamp PoliticsAug 7 PoliticsAug 7 Trump actually has a tariff strategy this time. It could still go terribly wrong. There’s a method to his trade war madness. But major economic and legal risks remain. By Andrew Prokop PoliticsAug 7 PoliticsAug 7 Trump’s tariffs hurt the working class. Why are some unions on board? The president’s economic policy has put unions in an awkward position. By Abdallah Fayyad Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad