Can you still love summer when it’s so damn hot
Life / Even Better Can you still love summer when it’s so damn hot? How to develop new habits in an era of extreme heat. by Allie Volpe Jul 31, 2025, 11:00 AM UTC Facebook Link Getty Images/iStockphoto Allie Volpe is a senior reporter at Vox covering mental health, relationships, wellness, money, home life, and work through the lens of meaningful self-improvement. If you’ve found yourself thinking this summer feels hotter than normal, you’re right. It’s not just the occasional heat dome trapping most of the nation in 90-degree heat; the summers have been steadily getting hotter on average because of climate change. That extreme heat is extremely dangerous to vulnerable populations like children, pregnant people, older adults, those with chronic illnesses, and people who work outside. Spending even a short amount of time out in the sun on a sweltering day increases your chances of developing a heat-related illness, like heat cramps or heat stroke. Soaring temps can affect your mental health, too, contributing to increased irritability and exacerbated mental health conditions. There’s a name for it: summertime seasonal affective disorder. It has been shown to make people agitated, less productive, and prone to isolation. Related Why you feel grouchy on super hot days To protect yourself from extreme heat, experts advise staying inside in air conditioning. But after a long winter of daydreaming about the joys of the season — days at the public pool, backyard barbecues, cocktails under the stars — the last thing you may want to do is remain cooped up. Summers are now beset by trade-offs; hunkering down in the AC to stay safe means forgoing the fruits of long, warm days. “My clients will talk a lot about when the sun is out, they feel this sense of guilt,” says Susan Albers, a clinical psychologist at the Cleveland Clinic. “Like they have to go outside and enjoy it because it doesn’t happen so often.” The mental and physical health benefits of spending time outdoors are well documented, but when extreme heat makes being outside dangerous, how can you cope? The planet isn’t cooling down any time soon, so you may need to adjust your habits and expectations to confront a new norm. Whether that means becoming an early bird or embracing indoor exercise, there are ways to adapt to ever-warming summers. “Having the mindset that it is okay to be inside,” Albers says. “We’re not hibernating, but we’re choosing to do this seasonal reset. To spend some time inside is good for our mental health, and it doesn’t have to be a negative thing.” Stay mentally well Because heat can increase irritability and agitation, it’s important to take extra measures to stay cool, calm, and collected — literally. Be aware of how the heat is impacting your mood and where you feel most at ease. Maybe you feel the best while watching a movie after work or when winding down in the AC on the train during your commute. Take advantage of those moments and make sure they’re a part of your regular routine. “I recommend avoiding any big decisions or big challenges on days that the heat is soaring,” Albers says. “Make sure that you’re in a good space and feeling cool and calm before making any kind of big decisions,” since you might not be in the right frame of mind if you’re too hot. The same goes for kids, too. If they’re overheated, they’re more likely to be agitated, Albers says. One easy way to relax and cool off, Albers says, is to place a cool washcloth on your forehead or neck to reset the vagus nerve, which can affect your mood, heart rate, and digestion. One study found that a cold sensation on the neck helped decrease stress by stimulating the nerve. Getting exposure to bright light in the morning is essential for maintaining your circadian rhythm and uplifting your mood, even in the summer, Albers says. Even if you don’t go outside, open the blinds and sit by a window to soak in some rays. At the end of the day, make sure you stick to a regular bedtime and get enough sleep, even when the sun is up later. A lack of rest can also negatively affect your mood. Related Too hot to sleep? Tips for a good night’s rest, even in extreme summer heat. Keep active While it can be tempting to skip your workout when it’s hot out, you should still make an effort to move your body. But unless you have a gym membership, you’ll need to reschedule your runs during oppressive summer days. If you’re going to exercise outdoors, try to do it in the early morning — preferably before 10 am — and in the shade, says Aaron Hipp, a professor of community health and sustainability at North Carolina State University. You can check the National Weather Service HeatRisk, which assigns risk categories based on heat conditions, to determine the health impacts of heat. Don’t feel guilty paring back intensity or cutting your workout short if you feel too hot. Walking alone is related to lower mortality — and you don’t need to stroll for hours on end to see a benefit. Public pools and splash pads are good options for cooler outdoor activity. “Maybe you’re a runner in the fall and spring,” Hipp says, “and in the summer, you need to be a walker. And that’s fine. You’re moving, you’re being active.” Related What to do (and avoid) in extreme heat Many people lack access to gyms, public pools, and parks and green spaces with adequate shade and water fountains, however. Those people can still move their bodies at home by following along with YouTube videos or doing bodyweight exercises, Hipp says, like crunches, push-ups, and squats. Whatever your activity level, it’s crucial to stay hydrated, wear sunscreen, and take frequent breaks. If you’re working (or working out) in the sun, drink one cup of water every 15 to 20 minutes or one ounce of fluid per pound of body weight. Maintain social connections Staying indoors when it seems like so many people are outdoors can lead to a lack of social interaction, which isn’t good for you either. Spending too much time alone has negative impacts on cardiovascular health, blood pressure, mental health, and cognitive function. Most people’s social health would benefit from one meaningful conversation with a friend or family member each day, according to research. You can enlist a friend as an accountability buddy for your morning walks, which serves a double benefit, according to Hipp. “You’ve got somebody to talk to,” he says. “For safety reasons, you’ve got somebody watching out for you.” Related It’s time to take stock of your social life Maximize social interactions with colleagues at work and strangers you see on your commute or while running errands to ensure you’re getting some socialization, especially if you live alone or work remotely. Even if the events on your social calendar don’t look quite as you planned, it’s important to keep up with friends. Bring the picnics indoors and let the kids set up a tent in the living room for sleepovers. While it might not be the summer you imagined, you have the power to create new traditions. “The mindset is really important,” Albers says. “Knowing that it’s going to be okay to stay inside during the summertime for your mental health.” See More: Advice Climate Even Better Life Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Even Better Headphones that scan your brainwaves and keep you focused? It’s not science fiction. How do you keep a kid’s fantasy camp afloat? How to start your own business in 2025, according to people who already did The surprisingly sound financial advice I got from a chatbot The Highlight Most couples used to meet this way. What happened? What to do (and avoid) in extreme heat ScienceAug 7 ScienceAug 7 Headphones that scan your brainwaves and keep you focused? It’s not science fiction. The cutting-edge of neurotech can read your mind. Sort of. By Adam Clark Estes Even BetterAug 4 Even BetterAug 4 How do you keep a kid’s fantasy camp afloat? A summer program running on magic, swords, and financial precarity. By Nicole Dieker Finley Even BetterAug 1 Even BetterAug 1 How to start your own business in 2025, according to people who already did From managing tariffs to dreaming up strategy, these six founders discuss the realities of starting a new business. By Allie Volpe Tech policyJul 31 Tech policyJul 31 The surprisingly sound financial advice I got from a chatbot AI wants to fix your money problems. What could go wrong? By Adam Clark Estes Even BetterJul 30 The Highlight Even BetterJul 30 The Highlight Most couples used to meet this way. What happened? ﻿If you’re sick of dating apps, consider this tried-and-true method. By Allie Volpe The Vox guide to extreme heatJul 28 The Vox guide to extreme heatJul 28 What to do (and avoid) in extreme heat Tips for keeping kids, adults, and the elderly cool and safe — even without air conditioning. By Allie Volpe Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad