Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. by Cameron Peters Jul 30, 2025, 9:40 PM UTC Facebook Link Brazilian President Lula da Silva on April 3, 2025. Ton Molina/NurPhoto via Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: The Trump administration is imposing new tariffs on Brazil and sanctioning a Brazilian supreme court justice in an extraordinary attempt to interfere in Brazil’s domestic politics on behalf of a far-right ally. What’s the big picture? President Donald Trump is intensely interested in the criminal case against former Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who is accused of planning a military coup attempt. Trump and his administration have repeatedly accused Brazilian officials of a political “witch hunt” against Bolsonaro and demanded they drop their case. Bolsonaro, a far-right leader whose supporters stormed government buildings in 2023 following his 2022 electoral defeat, allegedly planned to assassinate Brazilian President Luiz Inácio “Lula” da Silva and multiple others as part of his attempt to remain in power. How is Trump pressuring Brazil? The Trump administration took two new steps on Wednesday. First, the Treasury Department sanctioned Brazilian Supreme Court Justice Alexandre de Moraes under the Global Magnitsky Act, a law intended to target foreigners accused of serious human rights violations. (The department alleges violations by de Moraes, including regarding Bolsonaro’s prosecution, but nothing like what the law is normally used for.) Second, Trump imposed 50 percent tariffs on Brazil, effective immediately rather than on August 1. Brazil has a long-running trade deficit with the US, something Trump claims to want, which makes the tariffs an especially remarkable step. How is Brazil responding? So far, with defiance. Earlier this month, Lula declared that “No gringo is going to give orders to this president,” and Bolsonaro’s trial continues. Brazilians appear to be on his side: Lula’s support has risen in recent polls following Trump’s threats. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Why does this matter? Trump is attempting to use the US’s economic power to interfere in a foreign justice system in an effort to save an ally accused of serious crimes. If he’s successful, it’s a disturbing go-ahead for other would-be autocrats hoping to cling to power — and even if he’s not, it’s a shocking use of power on behalf of a perceived personal interest, rather than the interests of the US. And with that, it’s time to log off… It’s that time again — I, your faithful newsletter author, am back to recommend another episode of Vox’s consistently excellent Unexplainable podcast. This time, my colleague Byrd Pinkerton talks with two evolutionary biologists about a decades-long experiment with 12 E. coli colonies. It’s a great piece that explores big questions about why evolution on Earth played out the way it did, and whether it would do so again if it were re-run. I hope you give it a listen, and we’ll see you back here tomorrow! See More: Donald Trump Politics The Logoff World Politics Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The EPA gives up on climate change Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 28 The LogoffJul 28 Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The US and the EU reached a deal just days before Trump’s threatened deadline. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad