See the bizarre life forms scientists discovered more than 30,000 feet under the Pacific Ocean
Climate / Down to Earth Scientists made a mind-blowing discovery more than 30,000 feet under the Pacific Ocean The communities of sea creatures push the boundaries of what we know about life. by Benji Jones Updated Aug 1, 2025, 2:00 PM UTC Facebook Link Collections of microbes at the bottom of a trench in the Pacific Ocean. ﻿Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Benji Jones is an environmental correspondent at Vox, covering biodiversity loss and climate change. Before joining Vox, he was a senior energy reporter at Business Insider. Benji previously worked as a wildlife researcher. The Titanic lies about 12,500 feet under the ocean. The pressure down there is so immense that even submersibles supposedly built for those conditions can, as we know, tragically fail. Now imagine taking a sub nearly three times deeper. That’s what an international team of scientists did last summer. Led by the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the researchers took a manned submersible to the bottom of deep-sea trenches in an area in the northwest Pacific Ocean, roughly between Japan and Alaska. They reached a depth of more than 31,000 feet. The researchers weren’t looking for a shipwreck. They were interested in what else might be lurking on the seafloor in trenches so deep that no light can reach them. It was there that they found something remarkable: an entire ecosystem of animals, living in the darkness. Even more incredibly, those animals — and the animals they eat — derive energy not from sunlight but from chemical reactions. Through a process called chemosynthesis, deep-sea microbes turn chemicals like methane and hydrogen sulfide into organic compounds, including sugars, forming the base of the food chain. The discovery was published in the journal Nature. Credit: Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Aboard a deep-sea vessel called Fendouzhe, which was equipped with cameras and lights, the researchers encountered abundant wildlife communities, including fields of marine tube worms peppered with white marine snails. The worms have a symbiotic relationship with chemosynthetic bacteria that live in their bodies. Those bacteria provide them with a source of nutrients in exchange for, among other things, a stable place to live. Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Among the tube worms the scientists encountered white, centipede-like critters — they’re also a kind of worm, in the genus macellicephaloides — as well as sea cucumbers. Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS The researchers also found a variety of different clams on the seafloor, often alongside anemones. Similar to the tube worms, the clams depend on bacteria within their shells to turn chemical compounds like methane and hydrogen sulfide that are present in the deep sea into food. Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS This was the deepest community of chemosynthetic life ever discovered, according to Mengran Du, a study author and researcher at the Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, who was on the submersible. Du declined to comment on whether the expedition had anything to do with the potential for deep-sea mining in this region. “Diving in the submersible was an extraordinary experience — like traveling through time,” Du told Vox by email. “Each descent transported me to a new deep-sea realm. As a diving scientist, nothing compares to the thrill of gazing through the observation window with my own eyes.” Institute of Deep-sea Science and Engineering, CAS Unlike other deep-sea ecosystems — which feed on dead animals and other organic bits that fall from shallower waters — these trench communities are likely sustained in part by methane produced by microbes buried under the seafloor, the authors said. That suggests that wildlife communities may be more common in these extremely deep trenches than scientists once thought. “The presence of these chemosynthetic ecosystems challenge long-standing assumptions about life’s potential at extreme depths,” Du said. Update, August 1, 10 am ET: This story was originally published on July 30 and has been updated to include more details shared by a researcher involved in the expedition. See More: Climate Down to Earth Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Down to Earth The US has a bullfrog problem A wasting disease killed millions of sea stars. After years of searching, scientists just found a cause. Motion cameras were set up in the jungles of Guatemala — and they captured something incredible What the heck is “corn sweat” and is it making the Midwest more dangerous? The government stepped in to clean up a disaster in North Carolina. Then they created another one. Your favorite national park is struggling to survive Down to EarthAug 7 Down to EarthAug 7 The US has a bullfrog problem Invasive bullfrogs are spreading in the West. Here’s why scientists are so alarmed. By Benji Jones ScienceAug 4 ScienceAug 4 A wasting disease killed millions of sea stars. After years of searching, scientists just found a cause. Inside the years-long quest to catch a sea star killer. By Byrd Pinkerton Down to EarthJul 27 Down to EarthJul 27 Motion cameras were set up in the jungles of Guatemala — and they captured something incredible These (literal) thirst traps are helping wild animals beat the heat. By Benji Jones Down to EarthJul 23 Down to EarthJul 23 What the heck is “corn sweat” and is it making the Midwest more dangerous? It’s pretty much just as gross as it sounds. By Benji Jones Down to EarthJul 23 Down to EarthJul 23 The government stepped in to clean up a disaster in North Carolina. Then they created another one. Debris removal after Hurricane Helene did more damage to the environment than the storm itself in some parts of the state, scientists claim. By Benji Jones ClimateJul 22 ClimateJul 22 Your favorite national park is struggling to survive What budget cuts mean for wildlife, climate monitoring — and surviving peak tourism. By Christine Peterson Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad