The EPA gives up on climate change
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. by Cameron Peters Jul 29, 2025, 11:00 PM UTC Facebook Link EPA administrator Lee Zeldin attends a meeting with President Donald Trump in the Oval Office on March 13, 2025. Andrew Harnik/Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: President Donald Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency said today that it plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating emissions, potentially a major blow to efforts to combat climate change. Why does the EPA want to do this? EPA administrator Lee Zeldin has described the change, which follows a January executive order by Trump to reexamine the policy, as “the largest deregulatory action in the history of America”; more generally, it’s consistent with the Trump administration’s focus on promoting fossil fuels. What is the agency actually proposing? In 2009, the EPA reached what is known as the “endangerment finding” — a determination that greenhouse gases are dangerous to human health because of their role in climate change, on which the agency’s efforts to regulate greenhouse gas emissions rests. Now, the EPA proposes rolling back that finding. What will the impact be? If the EPA proposal takes effect, it would spell the end of nearly all US climate regulations, including those governing emissions by vehicles, factories, power plants, and more. That change would come even as the US is beginning to face more severe effects of climate change and as the world struggles to fend off warming caused by greenhouse gas emissions. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Is this a done deal? No. The EPA announced its proposal on Tuesday, but before it can reverse the finding, the plan will go through a review process, including a public comment period. It’s also all but certain to be challenged in court by environmental groups. And with that, it’s time to log off… Katie Ledecky won her sixth world title in the 1,500-meter freestyle at the swimming world championships in Singapore on Tuesday, and as usual, her competition wasn’t even in frame when she finished the race. As The Athletic points out, her split en route to the full 1,500 distance Tuesday would have been good for the 13th-fastest 800 meters ever swum, and with that win, she hasn’t lost a 1,500-meter race since she was 13 (she’s now 28). It’s a pretty incredible run of dominance and it’s worth taking a moment to appreciate just how long she’s been the greatest in the world at her event. And with that, we’ll see you back here tomorrow! See More: Climate Donald Trump Politics The Logoff Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 28 The LogoffJul 28 Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The US and the EU reached a deal just days before Trump’s threatened deadline. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad