Vox Announces Media Partnership With the Institute for the Study of Modern Authoritarianism for the Second Annual “Liberalism for the 21st Century” Conference
Vox Press Room Vox Announces Media Partnership With the Institute for the Study of Modern Authoritarianism for the Second Annual “Liberalism for the 21st Century” Conference Vox is sponsoring the panel “Philosophical Roots of Illiberal Movements,” moderated by Zack Beauchamp. by Vox Communications Jul 30, 2025, 2:00 PM UTC Facebook Link ISMA/Vox Today, Vox announced a media partnership with the Institute for the Study of Modern Authoritarianism (ISMA) for the second annual conference, “Liberalism for the 21st Century.” This two-day event brings together some of the world’s leading liberal thinkers, journalists, and advocates for a day and a half of programming dedicated to countering the rise of illiberalism and charting a course forward for a liberalism that can answer the challenges of the modern era. The conference will take place August 14 and 15 at the historic Watergate Hotel in Washington, DC. Vox is sponsoring the panel “Philosophical Roots of Illiberal Movements,” moderated by senior correspondent Zack Beauchamp, dissecting the diverse intellectual origins of contemporary illiberalism, and exploring ways in which liberalism can respond at the level of ideas. The panel will feature Damon Linker, senior lecturer, University of Pennsylvania; Tom Palmer, senior fellow, Cato Institute; and Laura Field, author of Furious Minds: The Making of the MAGA New Right. “Vox is proud to partner again with the Institute for the Study of Modern Authoritarianism in support of this important forum for dialogue in defense of democracy around the globe,” said Elbert Ventura, Vox’s executive editor. “We are at a dangerous moment, with the forces of authoritarianism gathering strength and threatening liberal democracy in the United States and elsewhere,” noted ISMA President and editor of The UnPopulist, Shikha Dalmia. “These forces are aided by illiberal ideologies that deserve a forceful intellectual response. Ultimately, this is a battle of ideas, and we are very glad to have a partner like Vox with us.” The conference will feature keynotes by Russian opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Murza and award-winning author Suketu Mehta, and panel discussions featuring top journalists, policymakers, and academics from around the world, including Jack Goldsmith, Frank Fukuyama, Derek Thompson, Steven Pinker, Jennifer Mittelstadt, Janice Stein, and more. Bill Kristol will host a debate on immigration. A full lineup and registration details are available here. See More: Democracy Politics Vox Press Room Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Vox Press Room Vox hosting Entrepreneurship, Explained live event Vox Announces Christina Vallice Joins as Head of Video Podcast Vox’s Unexplainable podcast expands to twice a week Making sense of it all Podcast How to get ad-free Vox podcasts Vox’s Unexplainable Launches New Podcast Series on AI in Partnership with Future Perfect Vox Press RoomAug 1 Vox Press RoomAug 1 Vox hosting Entrepreneurship, Explained live event The event takes place August 7 in New York City. By Vox Communications Vox Press RoomJul 1 Vox Press RoomJul 1 Vox Announces Christina Vallice Joins as Head of Video By Vox Communications Vox Press RoomMay 5 Podcast Vox Press RoomMay 5 Vox’s Unexplainable podcast expands to twice a week ﻿The show, which tackles scientific mysteries and unanswered questions, will now publish on Mondays and Wednesdays. By Vox Communications Vox Press RoomApr 1 Vox Press RoomApr 1 Making sense of it all Vox has a new tagline, a new mission statement, and a great new perk for members. By Swati Sharma PodcastsApr 1 Podcast PodcastsApr 1 How to get ad-free Vox podcasts Listen to your favorite shows without any ad breaks. By Bill Carey Vox Press RoomMar 5 Vox Press RoomMar 5 Vox’s Unexplainable Launches New Podcast Series on AI in Partnership with Future Perfect Julia Longoria joins Unexplainable as a host, launching her tenure with a four-part audio documentary asking how worried we should be about artificial intelligence. By Vox Communications Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad