Trump Administration Moving To Shrink Disability Benefits For Some Recipients
Trump Administration Moving To Shrink Disability Benefits For Some Recipients The Supplemental Security Income program is stuck in a petty tug-of-war between administrations. By Arthur Delaney Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 05:53 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Thousands of people on federal disability benefits got an extra few hundred dollars per month thanks to President Joe Biden, and now, thanks to President Donald Trump, it looks like that extra cash may go away. The Trump administration has given notice that it plans to rescind a change finalized last year allowing more Supplemental Security Income beneficiaries to receive full benefits even if they live with someone who helps them with food or shelter. Advertisement Supplemental Security Income, often known as SSI or disability, offers a maximum benefit of just $967 per month, with a third taken away from recipients receiving “in-kind support and maintenance,” such as help with groceries or rent, from a roommate or family member. The Biden administration finalized a rule last year saying it wouldn’t count in-kind support against SSI recipients if other people in the household are receiving federal food benefits, a change the administration said would grant full benefits to nearly 300,000 SSI recipients and make another 100,000 people newly eligible for the program. “The Trump Administration’s proposal to change the rule would harm hundreds of thousands of the nation’s lowest-income people,” Kathleen Romig and Devin O’Connor, policy analysts with the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said in a blog post on Thursday. Advertisement Romig and O’Connor said the change could present families with “heartbreaking” dilemmas. “It could discourage families from offering help to their loved ones, for fear of jeopardizing their meager benefits,” they wrote. “It could force more people to turn to institutional care because they could no longer afford to live in the community.” The Social Security Administration, which oversees SSI as the federal government’s welfare program of last resort, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. More than 7 million Americans receive SSI benefits, most of them disabled, with limited work histories, and very poor. The government monitors their bank accounts to dock benefits if they accumulate more than $2,000. The Biden administration’s rulemaking had sought to cut back on requirements for reporting in-kind assistance. Advertisement It’s not a surprise that the Trump administration would want to undo Biden’s changes to SSI. Biden blocked some disability cuts set in motion by Trump in his first term, and now Trump, in his second term, is doing the same in reverse. Congress has ignored SSI and the Social Security Disability Insurance program for years, letting program rules see-saw in a policy battle between successive administrations. Related Trump benefits Supplemental Security Income 2024 Election Has High Stakes For Disability Benefits Social Security Administration Backtracks On Part Of Trump's 'Identity Proofing' Policy Social Security Administration Announces 'Significant Workforce Reductions' Ahead Joe Biden Breaks Silence In First Public Event Since Leaving White House Donald Trump's Proposals Would Hurt Social Security’s Finances, Analysis Finds Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post