Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff Trump’s new EU trade deal, briefly explained The US and the EU reached a deal just days before Trump’s threatened deadline. by Cameron Peters Jul 28, 2025, 11:05 PM UTC Facebook Link President Donald Trump shakes hands with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen as he announces a trade deal with the EU on July 27, 2025, in Turnberry, Scotland.﻿ Andrew Harnik/Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: The US and the European Union have arrived at a new trade deal, just days before President Donald Trump’s threatened deadline to impose substantial new tariffs. What’s in the agreement? Only the broad strokes of the deal have been announced so far, but it sets a new tariff rate of 15 percent on many imports from the EU, half the 30 percent rate that had been threatened. It also includes a promise of mutual tariff-free trade on some products, including aircraft and some generic drugs, and a European commitment to buy $750 billion in US energy over the next three years. Other points are still under negotiation, according to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, including whether European wine and other spirits will receive an exemption from the 15 percent tariff. How is Trump’s trade war faring elsewhere? Earlier this month, Trump sent a new round of tariff demand letters to US trade partners, with a new deadline of August 1 (this Friday) to reach a trade deal and head off drastic tariffs. Since then, the US has reached a number of new agreements, including a deal with Japan last week — but many more are still outstanding. Among those is a deal with China, which negotiators met to discuss on Monday; a mutual suspension of tariffs between the two countries is set to expire on August 12, but is likely to be extended an additional 90 days as talks continue. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. What else should I know about the tariffs? Hovering over all Trump’s tariff threats and trade deals is the question of whether any of this is legal. One court, the US Court of International Trade, already ruled against the tariffs in May; now, an appeals court will hear the case on Thursday, and it will likely wend its way to the Supreme Court after that. And with that, it’s time to log off… I greatly enjoyed the latest entry in my colleague Benji Jones’s unofficial “wildlife motion cameras” series, about artificial watering holes in the jungles of Guatemala (and don’t miss his earlier piece, about animals along the US-Mexico border, here). In Guatemala, conservation groups have begun leaving out water for animals during hot summer weather, and jaguars, spider monkeys, tapirs, and more have been captured on camera taking a drink. There’s some great video in his full story — I hope you give it a read, and we’ll see you back here tomorrow! See More: Donald Trump Politics The Logoff Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil The EPA gives up on climate change The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad