The dire state of Gaza negotiations, briefly explained
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff The dire state of Gaza negotiations, briefly explained Ceasefire negotiations falter as Gaza totters on the brink of famine. by Cameron Peters Jul 25, 2025, 9:42 PM UTC Facebook Link Palestinians gather at a food distribution point in Gaza City on July 20, 2025. Majdi Fathi/NurPhoto via Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: The Trump administration is stepping back from ceasefire negotiations between Israel and Hamas, even as a rapidly worsening humanitarian crisis in Gaza adds to the urgency of reaching an agreement. What’s the latest? The latest round of talks was cut short on Thursday after US and Israeli negotiating teams were recalled from Doha, Qatar. On Friday, President Donald Trump told reporters that “Hamas didn’t really want to make a deal” and would be “hunted down.” What are the sticking points? The specifics are unclear, but US envoy Steve Witkoff accused Hamas of not “acting in good faith” in negotiations. Previously, Hamas’s desire for assurances about a permanent end to the conflict has been an issue for Israel. How have earlier negotiations gone? In January, shortly before Trump took office, Israel and Hamas agreed to a temporary ceasefire, which included the release of Israeli hostages and an increase in humanitarian aid to Gaza. The deal unraveled two months later, in March, and conditions in Gaza have only grown worse since then. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. What’s happening in Gaza right now? Gaza is home to more than 2 million Palestinians living in the most dire circumstances imaginable; the World Food Program said this week that a third of the population has been unable to eat for multiple days in a row, and children are dying of starvation. More than 1,000 Palestinians have also been killed by Israeli troops while attempting to access food aid in recent months, according to the UN. What’s the big picture? If the Trump administration so chose, there’s almost certainly more the US could do to incentivize Israel to reach a ceasefire deal, or at least allow more aid to be distributed in a way that doesn’t further endanger Palestinian lives. But the collapse of negotiations this week suggests no such effort is coming, even as Gaza totters on the brink of famine. And with that, it’s time to log off… Hi readers — this was a bleak way to end the week, and it can be hard to know what to put here that doesn’t feel grossly inadequate. But let’s end with some straightforwardly good (and fluffy) conservation news. The Chester Zoo in the UK announced the birth of a snow leopard cub this month, good news for the vulnerable (but as of 2017, no longer endangered) species. The cub doesn’t yet have a name, but you can see video of it with its parents here. That’s all for now — I hope you have a restful weekend and we’ll see you back here on Monday. See More: Donald Trump Israel Palestine Politics The Logoff World Politics Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil The EPA gives up on climate change The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad