Motion cameras were set up in the jungles of Guatemala — and they captured something incredible
Climate / Down to Earth Motion cameras were set up in the jungles of Guatemala — and they captured something incredible These (literal) thirst traps are helping wild animals beat the heat. by Benji Jones Jul 27, 2025, 11:00 AM UTC Facebook Link An aerial view of the Maya Biosphere Reserve in Peten Department, Guatemala. Johan Ordonez/AFP via Getty Images Benji Jones is an environmental correspondent at Vox, covering biodiversity loss and climate change. Before joining Vox, he was a senior energy reporter at Business Insider. Benji previously worked as a wildlife researcher. Support independent journalism and help us keep telling stories like this — become a Vox Member today. During a nasty summer heat wave — see: much of the US right now — water is a reliable source of relief. Where there are no rivers or lakes to swim in, we still might have swimming pools, sprinklers, and popsicles to keep ourselves cool. Wild animals don’t have such luxuries. Bouts of extreme heat and drought — which are becoming more common and less predictable as global temperatures rise — can cause natural watering holes in many different types of ecosystems to dry up. And animals don’t have a tap they can simply turn on. That leaves them with few places to hydrate and cool off, putting their lives, often already imperiled, at risk. But in some parts of the world, humans are offering help. In the jungles of northern Guatemala, which have been abnormally hot in recent years, environmental groups placed several large tubs of water in nature reserves. They refill them regularly, providing a reliable source of fresh water that animals can drink from or splash in, even when there’s no rain. And luckily for us, they also put motion-activated cameras nearby to see which animals were using them. You might call them thirst traps. Courtesy of Wildlife Conservation Society “The diversity of species using the water sources was amazing,” said Gabriela Ponce, head of Wildlife Conservation Society Guatemala, a group involved in the project with several others, including the local Guatemala NGO Foundation for Ecodevelopment and Conservation. Related Scientists put motion cameras along the US-Mexico border to spy on wildlife. The footage is spectacular — and telling. The footage reveals a diverse cast of jungle characters, including those that are rarely seen, like jaguars and tapirs — large herbivores with distinct trunk-like noses. It also exposed some interesting animal behaviors, Ponce said. Researchers noticed that spider monkeys seemed to prefer drinking from raised water containers — perhaps so that they can quickly escape if predators approach, Ponce said. Wild animals are often more sensitive to environmental impacts than we are. They don’t have technologies like air conditioning and water purification to survive all the ways in which we’re altering the planet, from heating it up to filling it with pollution. And when climate disasters hit, the impacts are often devastating to wild animals, too. Related The government stepped in to clean up a disaster in North Carolina. Then they created another one. But there are simple ways to help wildlife cope with the world we’ve created for them, like putting out (clean) hummingbird feeders and bird baths or extinguishing invasive mosquitos that are spreading avian malaria. “Artificial watering holes are not a permanent solution,” Rony García-Anleu, who leads biological research at Wildlife Conservation Society Guatemala, said in a press release. “But they are a vital tool in helping wildlife adapt to increasingly unpredictable environmental conditions.” See More: Climate Down to Earth Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Down to Earth The US has a bullfrog problem A wasting disease killed millions of sea stars. After years of searching, scientists just found a cause. Scientists made a mind-blowing discovery more than 30,000 feet under the Pacific Ocean What the heck is “corn sweat” and is it making the Midwest more dangerous? The government stepped in to clean up a disaster in North Carolina. Then they created another one. Your favorite national park is struggling to survive Down to EarthAug 7 Down to EarthAug 7 The US has a bullfrog problem Invasive bullfrogs are spreading in the West. Here’s why scientists are so alarmed. By Benji Jones ScienceAug 4 ScienceAug 4 A wasting disease killed millions of sea stars. After years of searching, scientists just found a cause. Inside the years-long quest to catch a sea star killer. By Byrd Pinkerton Down to EarthAug 1 Down to EarthAug 1 Scientists made a mind-blowing discovery more than 30,000 feet under the Pacific Ocean The communities of sea creatures push the boundaries of what we know about life. By Benji Jones Down to EarthJul 23 Down to EarthJul 23 What the heck is “corn sweat” and is it making the Midwest more dangerous? It’s pretty much just as gross as it sounds. By Benji Jones Down to EarthJul 23 Down to EarthJul 23 The government stepped in to clean up a disaster in North Carolina. Then they created another one. Debris removal after Hurricane Helene did more damage to the environment than the storm itself in some parts of the state, scientists claim. By Benji Jones ClimateJul 22 ClimateJul 22 Your favorite national park is struggling to survive What budget cuts mean for wildlife, climate monitoring — and surviving peak tourism. By Christine Peterson Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad