Mariah Carey Just Found Out Katy Perry Went To Space — And Her Response Is Out Of This World
Mariah Carey Just Found Out Katy Perry Went To Space — And Her Response Is Out Of This World The queen of Christmas was riddled with confusion By CorEy Townsend Aug 7, 2025, 05:04 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT Mariah Carey seemingly missed the launch on Katy Perry’s voyage to space. The queen of Christmas got quite the revelation while conducting an interview on BBC Radio’s “Scott Mills Breakfast Show” on Thursday. During the conversation, Mills brought Perry into Carey’s atmosphere and revealed that she had traveled to space — while asking the singer if she herself would “fancy going to space.” “Did she go to space?” she questioned. On April 14, Perry took a voyage beyond Earth’s atmosphere, on an all-female Blue Origin tourism flight. The news made headlines, and Perry even addressed it on numerous occasions, but those mentions were apparently far out of Carey’s orbit. Getty Images Advertisement While Carey was riddled with confusion, Mills confirmed that the act did indeed happen, but “not for long.” “Where did she go?” Carey asked, with a puzzled look still firmly placed on her face. At first Mills was unaware where Perry went, but then someone off-screen confirmed that Perry went into “orbit and back.” Even after the confirmation, Carey asked: “This is true?” “I have not made this up,” Mills responded. The Grammy winner celebrated her accomplishment and stated, “I’m not mad at her. That’s pretty amazing.” Advertisement Mills remarked that Perry “hasn’t stopped talking about it since,” and followed up by asking Carey if she herself would make the trip to space. “I think I’ve done enough,” she responded with a sly chuckle. Related Katy Perry Mariah Carey Mariah Carey's 3-Word Take On Jeff Bezos' $50 Million Wedding Is Oh So Mariah Mariah Carey’s Reaction To A Cover Of One Of Her Songs Is Cracking People Up Katy Perry Responds Boldly to Blue Origin Haters Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post