Columbia pays Trump’s ransom
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff Columbia pays Trump’s ransom ﻿Why is Columbia paying the Trump administration $200 million? by Cameron Peters Jul 24, 2025, 10:24 PM UTC Facebook Link Columbia University has agreed to pay $200 million to the Trump administration over three years. Charly Triballeau/AFP via Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: Columbia University has struck a deal with the Trump administration to restore federal research funding in exchange for a $200 million settlement and other concessions. What’s the context? Columbia has been attempting to come to terms with the Trump administration since it canceled $400 million in research funding for the university in March, accusing Columbia of permitting antisemitism on campus. Columbia subsequently caved to a number of demands, but only now succeeded in regaining its federal funding. Why did Trump go after Columbia? The administration has targeted at least 60 universities for alleged antisemitism, but Columbia received particular focus. It was the site of high-profile pro-Palestinian protests in April 2024, which spurred similar demonstrations at universities across the country. And just one day after the administration froze Columbia’s funding, student activist Mahmoud Khalil was arrested by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement and detained for 104 days. What did Columbia agree to? The deal requires Columbia to pay $200 million to the Trump administration over three years to settle discrimination allegations, as well as $21 million over a separate investigation. It also includes provisions about diversity, equity, and inclusion programs at Columbia, international student admissions, and Title IX. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. What are the implications of the deal? Columbia’s settlement might spell the end of the university’s months-long clash with the Trump administration — but it almost certainly won’t mark the end of President Donald Trump’s efforts to attack American higher education. The administration’s war with Harvard is ongoing, and a number of other research universities, including Princeton, Brown, Cornell, and Northwestern, have had research funding frozen. What’s the big picture? Since returning to office, Trump has set out to break American institutions that don’t cater to his demands — corporations like Disney and Paramount, universities like Columbia and UPenn, and white-shoe law firms like Paul Weiss. Frequently, he has succeeded, despite offering only thin pretenses of wrongdoing. It’s a concerning pattern, one commonly found in authoritarian regimes. And with that, it’s time to log off… I’m thrilled to say my colleagues over at the Today, Explained podcast finally got to cover some good news: After a pandemic-era spike, murder rates in the US are falling dramatically. In Baltimore, gun crime has reached a five-decade low. Senior producer Miles Bryan went to Baltimore to find out how the city made it happen — you can listen to his excellent reporting here. See More: Donald Trump Education Policy Politics The Logoff Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil The EPA gives up on climate change The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad