Welcome to the August issue of The Highlight
The Highlight Welcome to the August issue of The Highlight by Vox Staff Jul 28, 2025, 10:00 AM UTC Facebook Link Facebook Link It sometimes seems like Ozempic (and its ilk) is a miracle treatment, not just for weight loss but for all manner of other conditions and cravings. As GLP-1 drugs grow in popularity, and with the prospect of Ozempic pills on the horizon, it’s time to ask: What’s the catch? Also in this issue, you’ll find a feature on the terrifying consequences of America’s protein craze and an analysis of the testosterone theory of politics. Plus: Whatever happened to the friend setup? And how to make the hardest choices of your life. The one, big unanswered question about Ozempic By Dylan Scott How to make the hardest choices of your life By Sigal Samuel The testosterone theory of politics By Leo Kim Most couples used to meet this way. What happened? By Allie Volpe The terrifying reality behind one of America’s fastest-growing dairy brands By Kenny Torrella The one-sided intimacy of being a fan By Aja Romano See More: The Highlight More in The Highlight The Highlight The one-sided intimacy of being a fan The Highlight The terrifying reality behind one of America’s fastest-growing dairy brands The Highlight Most couples used to meet this way. What happened? The Highlight The testosterone theory of politics America’s fastest-growing suburbs are about to get very expensive The Highlight How to make the hardest choices of your life Explain It to MeAug 1 The Highlight Explain It to MeAug 1 The Highlight The one-sided intimacy of being a fan ﻿Parasocial relationships get a bad rap. How should you relate to your favorite celebrity? By Aja Romano Future PerfectJul 31 The Highlight Future PerfectJul 31 The Highlight The terrifying reality behind one of America’s fastest-growing dairy brands The dark side of Fairlife — and America’s protein craze. By Kenny Torrella Even BetterJul 30 The Highlight Even BetterJul 30 The Highlight Most couples used to meet this way. What happened? ﻿If you’re sick of dating apps, consider this tried-and-true method. By Allie Volpe The HighlightJul 29 The Highlight The HighlightJul 29 The Highlight The testosterone theory of politics The hormone might be the key to understanding this moment in America. By Leo Kim Future PerfectJul 28 Future PerfectJul 28 America’s fastest-growing suburbs are about to get very expensive Sprawl made suburbia affordable. Now it’s breaking it. Here’s what a new vision of the suburbs could look like. By Marina Bolotnikova Future PerfectJul 28 The Highlight Future PerfectJul 28 The Highlight How to make the hardest choices of your life ﻿From picking a career to picking a spouse, one radical philosophical idea will guide you. By Sigal Samuel Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad