Some Democrats may finally be ready to play dirty over redistricting
Politics / Congress The electoral arms race between Texas and California, explained A rush to redraw voter maps might determine future control of Congress.﻿ by Christian Paz Updated Aug 4, 2025, 2:30 PM UTC Facebook Link California Gov. Gavin Newsom has threatened to retaliate at Texas by forcing a state referendum or legislation to redraw districts to give Democrats a five- to seven-seat boost in Congress. Sean Rayford/Getty Images Christian Paz is a senior politics reporter at Vox, where he covers the Democratic Party. He joined Vox in 2022 after reporting on national and international politics for the Atlantic’s politics, global, and ideas teams, including the role of Latino voters in the 2020 election. A new kind of political battle is emerging between America’s parties — one centered on the composition of Congress and congressional redistricting. This process usually occurs every decade, after the US Census finishes its work and releases new demographic information that states use to reconfigure how the 435 seats in the House of Representatives are divided among the 50 states. But this summer, Texas Republicans are scrambling those norms. Republican lawmakers are trying to pass a new proposal for the GOP-controlled legislature to redraw their congressional maps in the middle of the decade to give the national party an advantage in the 2026 midterm elections. That vote in the legislature would have happened Monday — but state Democratic lawmakers have decided to leave the state. It’s a procedural effort to deny a quorum in the state House and delay a vote on the new map — though it’s unclear how long it can last. Still, the attempt to redraw congressional districts in the middle of the decade is a blatant power play — jump-started by President Donald Trump’s desire to offset potential losses next year and win a bigger Republican majority in the House for the second half of his term. At the moment, it looks likely that Republicans might lose some ground in Congress, as has been the trend for presidents’ parties for the last 70 years. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. This mid-decade redistricting effort is not the first time Texas Republicans have aggressively gerrymandered seats to boost their party’s representation in Congress, but it is abnormal for redistricting to happen this early, or as a direct response to a president’s wishes to gain an electoral advantage. And it doesn’t seem like Texas will be the only Republican-controlled state to try this. This sudden gamesmanship is forcing national and state-level Democrats to consider their own tit-for-tat, mid-decade redistricting efforts — and to confront a harsh reality. Many Democrats lack the political will to bend norms in response to these Republican efforts. And those who do will face steep legal and political obstacles, including from their own party. Still, that isn’t stopping some Democratic leaders from responding. Their leading voice is California Gov. Gavin Newsom, who has declared that he will redraw his state’s maps to boost Democrats if Texas Republicans move forward with their plan. Govs. Kathy Hochul of New York, Phil Murphy of New Jersey, and JB Pritzker of Illinois have also said they are considering their own responses. How Republicans are pressing their advantage Republicans have the upper hand on redistricting. In the majority of states across the country, state legislatures have the primary control and power to draw district lines. That includes the three states where Republicans have signaled they will try to redraw maps before the 2026 midterms — Texas, Ohio, and Missouri — all in which the GOP has unified control of the legislature and the governor’s office. Through redistricting these states alone, Republicans would be able to gain enough seats to secure a majority after the midterm elections. The current plan in Texas would gain them five seats, while additional redraws could give Republicans anywhere from one to three more seats in Ohio, and one seat in Missouri. Republicans currently have a three-seat majority in the House, as a result of resignations and deaths, which shrinks to a two-seat majority if all those vacancies are filled. And there are still more Republican-run states that could be tapped. As Punchbowl News reported last month, five Democratic-held seats could be threatened in Florida if Gov. Ron DeSantis agrees to a mid-decade redraw. And New Hampshire’s governor, Kelly Ayotte, could still be convinced by the White House to consider state Republicans’ past plans to create another Republican-friendly seat in the state. Other Republican-leaning states — like Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, and Nebraska — are limited from redrawing maps before 2026 by Democratic governors, more moderate Republican legislators and state courts, or the fact that their legislatures aren’t in session. Democrats in the three states that will likely create new GOP seats have few options to resist or block redraws. In Texas, Democrats have resorted to boycotting legislative sessions and preventing the legislature from voting by leaving the state. On Sunday, more than 50 lawmakers fled to Illinois and New York to deny the two-thirds threshold required for the Texas House to meet. Republicans had been trying to force them to participate by delaying a vote on flood disaster relief and recovery funding until after their redistricting effort passes, but state Democrats eventually decided to go ahead with this delay. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott has since issued an ultimatum: He will try to have the Democrats who left the state removed from office through an untested legal process, and fill their seats if they don’t return by the start of the session Monday. These lawmakers would also be fined $500 for every day they miss a vote. Democrats in Ohio and Missouri have no similar leverage. That leaves out-of-state Democrats as the next line of defense. But they face obstacles there. Democrats are limited by their own advocacy Democrats hoping to strike back have many fewer options. They’re limited by the number of states they control, the way those states handle redistricting, and the political will of legislators who view this kind of redistricting as beyond the pale. Democrats have unified control in 15 states, out of which they could probably only gain seats in about nine states: California, Colorado, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, and Washington. But politicians trying to redraw districts in any of these states will face steep hurdles. In California, Colorado, New York, New Jersey, and Washington, independent or bipartisan commissions have the power to draw congressional maps, not state legislatures. Those commissions were set up after years of bipartisan advocacy for fair representation and liberal activism for better government accountability and transparency. They are enshrined by state law or were set up by state ballot measures, and would require constitutional amendments, a statewide referendum, or court challenges to return redistricting power to the state legislature. That includes California — the state with the largest population — where the Texas Tribune is reporting that Newsom plans to present the state legislature a new congressional map that flips five Republican-held seats to cancel out Texas’s boost. After the Democratic-dominated legislature approves that plan, it would theoretically be put up as a statewide referendum for voter approval, though Newsom has said that he believes the legislature can pass these changes by itself. Still, Newsom hasn’t publicly confirmed these plans, and he faces bipartisan opposition to his idea. Other states essentially have prohibitions on mid-decade or early redistricting efforts, Dan Vicuña, a redistricting expert at the government accountability organization Common Cause, told me. The state constitutions of Washington and New Jersey, Vicuña said, contain provisions that limit redistricting to the year immediately following the census and limit intervention before that time. That leaves Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, and Oregon as the Democratic states where early redistricting could likely be accomplished with fewer obstacles. Already, some Maryland Democrats are signaling they would try to squeeze one more Democratic seat by redrawing their district lines. National Democrats have said they’ll try to gain a seat in Minnesota, though they’ll have to wait until state Democrats regain their majority in the Senate, where a Democratic lawmaker resigned this week, tying the chamber. Democrats may have no choice but to try redistricting For as much bluster as Democrats are making about trying to retaliate, Republicans are actually taking the steps to do early redistricting. Congressional Democrats, for now, are trying to build support among governors and state lawmakers to engage in this political back-and-forth. According to CNN, House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries and his advisers are exploring legal ways to redraw maps in California, New Jersey, New York, Minnesota, and Washington, but those details have yet to be made public. Some Texas state Democrats, meanwhile, traveled to California and Illinois last week to discuss GOP redistricting with the Democratic governors there. But to stay in the game, Democrats may have to abandon their own rules. The Trump-era GOP has shown its willingness to push the bounds of political norms and bend institutions. There are valid, long-term concerns about what this kind of ad-hoc redistricting will mean for elections and trust in government in the future — what Vicuña described as a “race to the bottom” — but Democrats, at least in Congress, are accepting that playing fair, or by old norms, isn’t enough. Update, August 4, 10:30 am ET: This article was originally published on July 23 and has been updated multiple times with news about California’s potential plans to redraw its congressional maps, Texas Democrats’ quorum delay, and Gov. Greg Abbott’s response. See More: Congress Explainers Politics Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports Today, Explained Understand the world with a daily explainer, plus the most compelling stories of the day. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Congress How Republicans are trying to redistrict their way to a majority Epstein breaks Congress Trump’s attack on NPR and PBS, briefly explained Trump is about to notch his biggest legislative win — but it could come at a cost Republicans now own America’s broken health care system The Republican spending bill is a disaster for reproductive rights Today, Explained newsletterJul 29 Today, Explained newsletterJul 29 How Republicans are trying to redistrict their way to a majority A Vox reporter explains what’s going on with the GOP’s early redistricting plans. By Christian Paz and Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 22 The LogoffJul 22 Epstein breaks Congress ﻿The House is heading for the door early to avoid an Epstein vote. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 18 The LogoffJul 18 Trump’s attack on NPR and PBS, briefly explained ﻿Congress signs off on Trump’s request to claw back funding. By Cameron Peters PoliticsJul 3 PoliticsJul 3 Trump is about to notch his biggest legislative win — but it could come at a cost The public tends to dislike big budget bills, and the way they’re passed. By Christian Paz Health CareJul 3 Health CareJul 3 Republicans now own America’s broken health care system The $1 trillion in Medicaid cuts will be felt by all Americans. By Dylan Scott PoliticsJun 30 PoliticsJun 30 The Republican spending bill is a disaster for reproductive rights How Trump’s “big, beautiful bill” attacks abortion and reproductive care, in 2 charts. By Nicole Narea Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad