Epstein breaks Congress
Politics / Donald Trump / The Logoff Epstein breaks Congress ﻿The House is heading for the door early to avoid an Epstein vote. by Cameron Peters Jul 22, 2025, 10:20 PM UTC Facebook Link House Speaker Mike Johnson talks to reporters at the US Capitol on July 21, 2025.﻿ Andrew Harnik/Getty Images Cameron Peters is a Washington-based editor and writer and staff editor at Vox. This story appeared in The Logoff, a daily newsletter that helps you stay informed about the Trump administration without letting political news take over your life. Subscribe here. Welcome to The Logoff: President Donald Trump’s self-inflicted Jeffrey Epstein scandal has essentially paralyzed the House of Representatives, as Speaker Mike Johnson announced today that the chamber would recess early to avoid voting to disclose information about the deceased financier. What changed? The House had been scheduled to remain in session until Thursday, but will now recess tomorrow and remain out until September 2 after a new bipartisan bill to release files on Epstein gained traction. A long August recess is normal for Congress, but not the abrupt decision to head for the door early. Why does this matter? The Logoff hasn’t covered the Epstein scandal yet because our mission is to highlight what matters most — not what’s talked about most. But it’s become clear that, at least for now, this isn’t going away, and the lengths that Trump’s Republican allies in the House are going to to avoid the issue are noteworthy. Outside Congress, it has real staying power within Trump’s coalition. Like it or not, the conspiracy theory is playing an inescapable role in politics right now. What’s the context? Trump, and by extension the Republican Party, have struggled to respond to a ballooning scandal around their refusal to disclose new information about clients of Jeffrey Epstein, the convicted sex offender who died by suicide in federal custody in 2019. Releasing additional information would go against standard DOJ procedure — but Trump and many of his allies promised to do so during the 2024 campaign, and Trump’s attorney general, Pam Bondi, said in February that she was reviewing Epstein’s alleged “client list” for potential release. The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. What’s next? Johnson remains stuck between a Republican conference ready to vote in favor of releasing more information and Trump, who has aggressively resisted calls to do so. It’s unclear if the August recess will give him any breathing room, but in the meantime, the DOJ is hoping to meet with Ghislaine Maxwell, a convicted Epstein associate, to seek new information about possible Epstein clients, and the House Oversight Committee voted Tuesday to subpoena Maxwell to testify. And with that, it’s time to log off… I highly recommend this recent blog from Defector, which is basically just an excuse to look at some cool bird photos (and learn some fun facts). It’s a very good time and a reminder that nature is pretty neat. Of course, the best way to enjoy it, good as the blog is, isn’t through a screen — so I hope you’re able to log off for a bit this evening, take a walk, and maybe see some interesting birds of your own along the way. We’ll see you back here tomorrow! See More: Congress Donald Trump Politics The Logoff Most Popular Mark Zuckerberg’s unbelievably bleak AI vision The White House has a preferred alternative to PBS. It may already be in countless classrooms. Podcast Take a mental break with the newest Vox crossword The Air Quality Index and how to use it, explained The hidden forces ruining youth sports The Logoff The email you need to stay informed about Trump — without letting the news take over your life. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in The Logoff Trump’s new tax, briefly explained RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil The EPA gives up on climate change The LogoffAug 7 The LogoffAug 7 Trump’s new tax, briefly explained Trump finally imposed his new tariffs. Here’s what to know. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 6 The LogoffAug 6 RFK Jr. defunds a medical miracle mRNA vaccines saved millions of lives. RFK Jr. is attacking them anyway. By Cameron Peters The LogoffAug 5 The LogoffAug 5 Did we just lose $7 billion for solar? ﻿Trump’s EPA wants to claw back grants for a solar panel program. By Cameron Peters and Paige Vega PoliticsAug 1 PoliticsAug 1 The jobs numbers were bad — so Trump fired the messenger The abrupt dismissal of the head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, briefly explained. By Andrew Prokop The LogoffJul 30 The LogoffJul 30 Why Trump is picking a fight with Brazil ﻿Trump is attempting to interfere in the criminal trial of a far-right ally in Brazil. By Cameron Peters The LogoffJul 29 The LogoffJul 29 The EPA gives up on climate change The agency plans to reverse its own legal justification for regulating greenhouse gas emissions. By Cameron Peters Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad