Vox Book Club
Vox Book Club Find your next read and explore the big ideas around literature and publishing with the 2025 Summer Book Club. Paige Vickers/Vox In a world of relentless notifications, countless demands on your attention, and an endless stream of easy entertainment, it can be hard to carve out time for the humble book. But now more than ever, I’d argue we need the expansiveness and delight that only books can offer. What better reward is there than finding yourself immersed in the perfect read — one that surprises, charms, and even challenges you? Vox is here to help you navigate the bustling, baffling, and often delightful world of literature and publishing. Our resident book critic, Constance Grady, curates thoughtful recommendations for both new and old releases through her excellent monthly newsletter, Next Page, and its “Ask a Book Critic” feature, where she answers reader requests for personalized recommendations. But she doesn’t stop there: Constance also explores the deeper currents behind book culture — from the inner workings of the publishing industry to the way literature can help explain the world we live in. Whether you’re looking for your next read or eager to dive into the most exciting ideas behind books, Vox Book Club has something for you. We hope you’ll read with us. —Naureen Khan, senior editor Read More Vox Book Club The sad young literary man is alive and well on Substack By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The 9 best books of the year so far By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The Highlight “I don’t want romantasy, I want Heathcliff!” By Constance Grady Vox Book Club It’s spring. Take a breath. Read a book. By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The great American classic we’ve been misreading for 100 years By Constance Grady Vox Book Club A major book publisher announced a change. The industry freaked out. By Constance Grady Vox Book Club A hippie memoir that will send you on a trek through Kathmandu By Constance Grady Vox Book Club Are men’s reading habits truly a national crisis? By Constance Grady Vox Book Club How America’s ideal woman got jacked By Constance Grady Vox Book Club Why does Elon Musk love this socialist sci-fi series? By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The Highlight Ask a Book Critic: I want a book that won’t stress me out before bed By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The Highlight Ask a Book Critic: How do I get back into reading after a break? By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The sad young literary man is alive and well on Substack By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The 9 best books of the year so far By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The Highlight “I don’t want romantasy, I want Heathcliff!” By Constance Grady Vox Book Club It’s spring. Take a breath. Read a book. By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The great American classic we’ve been misreading for 100 years By Constance Grady Vox Book Club A major book publisher announced a change. The industry freaked out. By Constance Grady Vox Book Club A hippie memoir that will send you on a trek through Kathmandu By Constance Grady Vox Book Club Are men’s reading habits truly a national crisis? By Constance Grady Vox Book Club How America’s ideal woman got jacked By Constance Grady Vox Book Club Why does Elon Musk love this socialist sci-fi series? By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The Highlight Ask a Book Critic: I want a book that won’t stress me out before bed By Constance Grady Vox Book Club The Highlight Ask a Book Critic: How do I get back into reading after a break? By Constance Grady