'Grey’s Anatomy’ Star Camilla Luddington Confirms Diagnosis
‘Grey’s Anatomy’ Star Camilla Luddington Opens Up About Hashimoto’s Disease Diagnosis “I joke about being slothy, just a little slower. ... It never occurred to me that there could be a medical reason for that,” the actor said. By Curtis M. Wong Senior Culture Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 04:30 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Camilla Luddington, best known for her portrayal of Dr. Jo Wilson on “Grey’s Anatomy,” confirmed this week that she has Hashimoto’s disease. The actor discussed her diagnosis on Wednesday’s episode of the iHeart podcast “Call It What It Is,” which she hosts with her “Grey’s” co-star Jessica Capshaw. Advertisement “You’ve known that I joke about being slothy, just a little slower,” Luddington said. “Slower, tired, wanna be in bed, love a nap. It never occurred to me that there could be a medical reason for that, and that’s where we’ve landed.” She went on to note that routine blood work she’d been putting off helped lead to her diagnosis. “My doctor was like, ‘Everything looks great, except this one little thing,‘” she recalled. “And I remember hearing the words ‘autoimmune disease’ and thinking, ‘What the fuck?’ And then being told that I had something called Hashimoto’s hypothyroidism and that it was very common.” According to Johns Hopkins Medicine, Hashimoto’s disease ― also known as Hashimoto’s hypothyroidism ― is a condition where the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks the thyroid gland, leading to inflammation and, eventually, an underactive thyroid. Advertisement Camilla Luddington said getting routine blood work led to her being diagnosed with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, an autoimmune disease. Maya Dehlin Spach via Getty Images Symptoms of the condition may include fatigue, joint pain, weight gain and constipation. It’s also most common among women between the ages of 30 and 60, and may begin during pregnancy. Luddington, whose credits also include “Californication” and “True Blood,” said she came to view her diagnosis as a bit of a relief, given that she “knew something was up” prior to her doctor’s visit. Advertisement “I felt like I had the answer for something that I’ve been knowing is going on,” she explained. “And I have health anxiety, so there was a part of me that was like, ‘Am I gaslighting myself?’” These days, Luddington said, she’s “on the road to recovery,” though she was quick to acknowledge that it’s “going to be a journey.” Her fans, however, can expect to be kept updated as often as possible. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “We set out to share all the things in the hopes that sharing our stories might resonate with somebody else, or make somebody feel a little less alone in their experience,” she said. Advertisement Listen to the Aug. 6 episode of “Call It What It Is” here. Luddington’s comments on her health begin around the 3:57 mark. Related Jessica Capshaw Camilla Luddington Eric Dane Makes First Red Carpet Appearance After Disclosing ALS Diagnosis I Was Living The Dream As A Peloton Instructor. Behind The Scenes, I Was Suffering A Frightening Medical Mystery. 'Grey's Anatomy' Star Pushes Back On Complaints Show Wastes PPE Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post