“MAHA” soda ban gains momentum
Advertisement: “MAHA” soda ban gains momentum Trump’s USDA is letting states ban soda and candy from SNAP. Six more have just signed on By Joy Saha Staff Writer Published August 7, 2025 12:15PM (EDT) Sodas (Getty Images / ContemporAd) Facebook X Reddit Email Save The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced Tuesday that six additional states have excluded certain junk food items from SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) eligibility. U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Brooke L. Rollins signed individual waivers for West Virginia, Florida, Colorado, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas that allow each state to determine what foods can no longer be bought using food assistance. The signed waivers are slated to go into effect in 2026. “It is incredible to see so many states take action at this critical moment in our nation’s history and do something to begin to address chronic health problems,” Rollins said in a statement. “President Trump has changed the status quo, and the entire cabinet is taking action to Make America Healthy Again. At USDA, we play a key role in supporting Americans who fall on hard times, and that commitment does not change. Rather, these state waivers promote healthier options for families in need.” Of the six states, Florida will have the most restrictions, which include the purchase of soda, energy drinks, candy and prepared desserts, Newsweek reported. Both West Virginia and Colorado will restrict the purchase of soft drinks. Louisiana will restrict the purchase of soft drinks, energy drinks and candy, while Oklahoma will restrict the purchase of soft drinks and candy. Texas will restrict the purchase of sweetened drinks and candy. Related House Republicans are looking to cut SNAP benefits in an attempt to reduce federal spending Similar waivers were previously signed for Nebraska, Iowa, Indiana, Arkansas, Idaho and Utah. “For years, SNAP has used taxpayer dollars to fund soda and candy — products that fuel America’s diabetes and chronic disease epidemics,” said Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. “These waivers help put real food back at the center of the program and empower states to lead the charge in protecting public health. I thank the governors who have stepped up to request waivers, and I encourage others to follow their lead. This is how we Make America Healthy Again.” Read more about SNAP: Aid groups prepare for a “big beautiful” spike in poverty “Hunger is not just a statistic”: Rachael Ray takes on Congress Food stamps, redefined by red states By Joy Saha Joy Saha is a staff writer at Salon. She writes about food news and trends and their intersection with culture. She holds a BA in journalism from the University of Maryland, College Park. MORE FROM Joy Saha Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Brief Food Food News Robert F. Kennedy Jr. SNAP Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program USDA Related Articles Advertisement: