Netanyahu Says Israel Plans To Take Control Of Entire Gaza Strip
Netanyahu Says Israel Plans To Take Control Of Entire Gaza Strip The prime minister and his far-right colleagues have faced intense backlash for such a plan, which would be a major escalation in the 22-month offensive. By Sanjana Karanth Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 04:03 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Ahead of an Israeli Security Cabinet meeting to decide Gaza’s future, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Thursday that his military intends to take control of the entire besieged Palestinian territory. In an interview with Fox News, the prime minister was asked whether Israel plans a complete takeover of Gaza, something that his Security Cabinet would need to approve before implementing. Advertisement “We intend to, in order to assure our security, remove Hamas there, enable the population to be free of Gaza,” Netanyahu said. He added that Israel does not intend to permanently reoccupy the territory, but rather, eventually hand over control to an Arab state friendly to Israel. Hamas said that Netanyahu’s remarks “represent a clear reversal of the course of [ceasefire] negotiations” in Gaza. Despite withdrawing from Gaza in 2005, Israel has continued to control the movement of people and goods, as well as the resulting taxes. “We affirm that Gaza will remain defiant to the occupation and attempts to impose guardianship over it,” Hamas said. “Expanding the aggression against our Palestinian people will not be a walk in the park, and the price will be high and costly for the occupation and its Nazi army.” Advertisement FOX: Will Israel take control of all of Gaza? NETANYAHU: We intend to pic.twitter.com/7fXkcbPeoy — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) August 7, 2025 The prime minister and his far-right coalition partners have faced intense backlash this week for pushing the plan to reoccupy all of Gaza, of which the Israeli military already controls about 75% after flattening the territory and forcibly displacing most of the population. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday that the decision on whether to fully occupy the territory was “pretty much up to Israel.” Advertisement Such a plan, if approved by the Security Cabinet, would signify a major escalation in the 22-month offensive many in the international and human rights communities have since labeled a genocide. Israel is already finding itself increasingly isolated from the rest of the world due to its indiscriminate attacks, engineered famine and ongoing aid blockade that many of its Western allies have recently warned to stop. Israel’s military leadership has voiced concern over reoccupying Gaza, including Lt. Gen. Eyal Zamir, who warned Netanyahu on Tuesday against making exhausted soldiers responsible for governing 2 million Palestinians. The plan has also received pushback from families of the remaining hostages in Hamas’ captivity, who for months have accused Netanyahu of prioritizing his political career over bringing their loved ones home. Some families fear that attempts to reoccupy all of Gaza will put the surviving captives at even higher risk. Advertisement Haaretz journalist Gideon Levy said that Netanyahu’s claim that Israel wants another governing body to take over Gaza is “far-fetched,” according to Al Jazeera. “Who is going to get into Gaza, who will be willing to do so, except for the Israeli military obviously?” Levy told the outlet. “That’s another way of covering up the real intention, and I’m afraid that the intention is quite transparent. There is a goal for this war … to push all of the people of Gaza to this ‘humanitarian’ concentration camp and then offer them to leave Gaza. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. ″[Israel is] preparing an ethnic cleansing,” he continued. “We have to face it.” Related IsraelBenjamin Netanyahu gaza strip Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In World News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost World News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post