Sam’s Club fruit recall hits 42 states
Advertisement: Sam’s Club fruit recall hits 42 states Officials warn the fruit snack may contain listeria, a bacteria linked to a deadly outbreak earlier this year By Francesca Giangiulio Food Fellow Published August 6, 2025 12:40PM (EDT) Closeup of freeze dried blueberries, strawberries and bananas (Liudmila Chernetska / Getty Images ) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Before you reach for your snack drawer, you might want to do a double take. A popular summer snack has just been recalled. Member’s Mark Freeze-Dried Fruit Variety Packs from Sam’s Club have been recalled due to potential listeria contamination. Doehler Dry Ingredient Solutions LLC announced the voluntary recall of the 15-count variety box on July 30, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration republished the announcement on July 31. The announcement identifies Listeria monocytogenes — commonly referred to as listeria — as the potential foodborne illness. Listeria is a microscopic bacterium often found in deli meats, hot dogs, and soft cheeses. Related Over 1,000 pounds of frozen ground beef have been recalled due to potential metal contamination You might recognize the name listeria from the massive outbreak earlier this year linked to contaminated Boar’s Head meats. That outbreak killed ten people and sickened dozens more across 18 states — a reminder that listeria is no joke. The affected Member’s Mark Freeze-Dried Fruit packs were distributed between July 1 and July 25, 2025 and have “use-by” dates from June 24 to July 25, according to the FDA statement. The products were packaged in individual foil packets in a cardboard box. The UPC number is 1 93968 50900 2. Both the UPC number and the “use-by” date can be found on the bottom of the box. The potentially contaminated fruit was distributed in 42 states, including California, Florida, Texas, New York, Illinois and others. We need your help to stay independent Subscribe today to support Salon’s progressive journalism Listeria can cause high fever, severe headache, stiffness, nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhea. Although healthy people may recover quickly, these symptoms can be much worse and potentially fatal in children, the elderly, pregnant people, and those with weakened immune systems. Earlier this month, Sam’s Club — owned by Walmart — also recalled several Kraft Heinz products for potential listeria contamination. Those products included the 12-ounce, 36-ounce and 48-ounce packages of Oscar Meyer Turkey Bacon Original. The freeze-dried fruit contamination was found through internal testing at Doehler Dry Ingredient Solutions LLC. So far, no illnesses have been reported from the Member’s Mark Freeze-Dried Fruit. Listeria is not visible to the naked eye, so if you recently purchased Member’s Mark Freeze-Dried Fruit and believe it may be contaminated, do not eat it. Throw out the box and return to Sam’s Club for a full refund. Read more about this topic Tony’s Chocolonely recalls bars over small stone contamination Over 200,000 pounds of liquid egg products recalled due to potential cleaning solution contamination “Foreign object”: Coca-Cola recalls 10,000 cans due to plastic contamination By Francesca Giangiulio MORE FROM Francesca Giangiulio Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Listeria Recall Sam's Club Related Articles Advertisement: