Pete Buttigieg Sums Up How Trump Makes Our Lives Worse In Refreshingly Simple Way
Pete Buttigieg Sums Up How Trump Makes Our Lives Worse In Refreshingly Simple Way People loved how the former transportation secretary trashed Donald Trump for "appointing incompetent people over very important things in our lives.” By Elyse Wanshel Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 03:58 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Pete Buttigieg wants more Democrats to adopt the Michael Scott concept of “explain this to me like I’m 5.” The former transportation secretary is receiving praise online for urging liberals to use everyday language to communicate — especially when it comes to articulating the ways President Donald Trump sucks. Advertisement “We do have to look at what we’re doing that makes it hard to hear what we have to say,” Buttigieg told NPR last week. “Too often, we talk in terms that are academic, and when we’re talking about deeply important things like freedom and democracy, we still have to have a way of talking about it that relates to how everyday life is different.” Buttigieg then demonstrated how effectively simple language can point out how Americans’ lives are “different and worse” now that we have “an autocrat in power” who’s “appointing incompetent people over very important things in our lives.” Pete Buttigieg and President Donald Trump. Getty Advertisement He went on to take aim at four of Trump’s Cabinet members. “So, right now we have the secretary of defense in charge of defending the American people who is accidentally texting military strike information internally to journalists,” Buttigieg said of Pete Hegseth, who did exactly that in March when a staffer unwittingly added Atlantic editor-in-chief Jeffrey Goldberg to a Signal group chat. Buttigieg then moved on to the health secretary. “We have the person in charge of American public health who is a quack, who doesn’t believe in medicine,” Buttigieg said of Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has been spreading misinformation about vaccines for years. “And now measles is on the rise in America.” He then called out the education secretary, whose mistakes are extra embarrassing for someone in charge of America’s academic future. Advertisement “We have a secretary of education in charge of your kids’ educational well-being who has spoken about the importance of ‘A-One,’” Buttigieg said, referring to Linda McMahon. “Which means she does not understand that the acronym is ‘AI.’ Which means she does not understand the most important development affecting education in our lifetimes.” Buttigieg’s final criticism was directed at a Cabinet member notorious for her cosplay and slow response to a devastating natural disaster. “We have a secretary of Homeland Security who sat on funding and did not allow it to go to Texas during the floods for at least two days, for no good reason,” Buttigieg said of Kristi Noem. Advertisement “Those are the kinds of things I think we need to talk about before anybody can hear us in these high-minded academic discussions about freedom and democracy,” Buttigieg concluded. Whew. I have never seen a more brutal takedown of Trump’s cabinet than Pete Buttigieg here. No academic, high-brow rhetoric. Just simple, vivid language that everyone can understand & get behind. A masterclass from Pete. Watch this. pic.twitter.com/ZjU48QvZxb — Victor Shi (@Victorshi2020) July 29, 2025 When a clip of Buttigieg’s remarks made its way to X, formerly Twitter, many left-leaning folks appreciated his “simple, vivid language that everyone can understand.” Advertisement Oh my god! It’s such a pleasure to hear someone speaking intelligently and truthfully. The current administration is just a shit show of unqualified people. — Mogana (@MoganaPhilips) July 29, 2025 “Pete just seamlessly rattles off an itemized list of how Trump’s Cabinet officials have f*cked up and how it impacts your life,” one user noted. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “Simple yet brilliant,” another user echoed. “Buttigieg is so good at breaking things down in clear language,” another user said. “trumps horrible yes men stooge picks for cabinet undeniably makes your life worse as an American,” an X user said, agreeing with Buttigieg. Advertisement Related Donald Trump pete buttigieg Pete Buttigieg Says 1 'Epic F**kup' Exposes Trump's Big Claim As 'Just Bulls**t' Pete Buttigieg Offers Advice To Democrats On Getting Through Trump's Presidency Pete Buttigieg Calls Trump 'Despicable' For Blaming Plane Crash On Him Pete Buttigieg Calls Out Trump For His Gold Medal-Level Lies Pete Buttigieg Takes Down Republicans With Precise Plan For 'Freedom' In America Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post