Woody Allen compares Epstein to Dracula in newly unearthed letter
Advertisement: Woody Allen compares Epstein to Dracula in newly unearthed letter The director and regular dinner guest of Epstein's said he could see the sex trafficker "sleeping in damp Earth" By Alex Galbraith Nights and Weekends Editor Published August 5, 2025 7:11PM (EDT) US director Woody Allen (ANDER GILLENEA/AFP via Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Director Woody Allen said neighbor Jeffrey Epstein‘s New York City mansion reminded him of a vampire’s castle. In a letter celebrating Epstein’s 63rd birthday, newly unearthed by the New York Times, Allen said the staff and young women the late sex offender kept around his seven-story townhouse put him in mind of Castle Dracula. Allen was speaking about dinners that he attended at Epstein’s place, saying they were served “by some professional houseman and just as often by several young women, reminding one of Castle Dracula where [Bela] Lugosi has three young female vampires who service the place.” “Add to this that Jeffrey lives in a vast house alone, one can picture him sleeping in damp earth,” Allen wrote. Related Trump, unraveling, digs himself in deeper with Epstein The letter was part of a larger story from the Times on Epstein’s townhouse. The piece was filled with photos of the 21,000 square-foot home on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. Formerly owned by retail billionaire Les Wexner, the massive home had been remodeled to suit Epstein’s taste. Notable decor included a statue of a bride hanging onto a rope that dangled in an atrium, a wall of framed prosthetic eyeballs and leopard-print seating. Notably, one credenza in the home featured photos of Epstein with politicians, celebrities and businessmen. A framed photo of Epstein with President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump sat in the first row of picture frames in the images shared by the Times. Nearby, there were photos of Epstein with Bill Clinton and a signed dollar from Microsoft founder Bill Gates. Read more about this topic House subpoenas Clintons, demands full Epstein files from DOJ Charlamagne begs “donkey” Trump to keep “Epstein files” promise Ghislaine Maxwell moved to minimum-security Texas prison camp By Alex Galbraith Alex Galbraith is Salon's nights and weekends editor, and author of our free daily newsletter, Crash Course. He is based in New Orleans. MORE FROM Alex Galbraith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Bill Clinton Donald Trump Jeffrey Epstein Manhattan New York City Woody Allen Related Articles Advertisement: