House subpoenas Clintons, demands full Epstein files from DOJ
Advertisement: House subpoenas Clintons, demands full Epstein files from DOJ The former president and secretary of state were included in a raft of subpoenas related to the "Epstein files." By Alex Galbraith Nights and Weekends Editor Published August 5, 2025 4:07PM (EDT) Former President Bill Clinton and former first lady Hillary Clinton attend the inauguration of U.S. President-elect Donald Trump (Photo by Kenny Holston-Pool/Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform demanded that the Department of Justice turn over their files on Jeffrey Epstein on Tuesday, ordering the release of the “full, complete, unredacted” case files by August 19. The Republican-controlled committee also issued subpoenas to former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, seeking their testimony about the late sex trafficker. In addition to the Clintons, the committee sought depositions from former Attorneys General Merrick Garland, Jeff Sessions, Alberto Gonzales, Bill Barr, Loretta Lynch and Eric Holder. They also ordered former FBI Directors James Comey and Robert Mueller to testify about their handling of the case against Epstein. A letter sent to President Clinton by Committee Chair James Comer, R-Ky., wrote that Clinton was “pictured receiving a ‘massage’ from one of Mr. Epstein’s victims” and alleged that he was “close to” Epstein associate Ghislaine Maxwell. President Clinton was given the longest lead time to respond, with a deadline of October 14. Related Trump, unraveling, digs himself in deeper with Epstein The subpoenas were sent on the same day that the New York Times published a look inside Epstein’s New York townhouse. Photos shared by the outlet show framed pictures of Epstein with Bill Clinton, as well as President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump. President Trump previously mentioned Bill Clinton’s alleged association with Epstein while under pressure from reporters about his own ties to the convicted sex criminal. Earlier this month, Trump said he “turned down” offers to fly out to Little St. James and alleged President Clinton and former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers took trips to Epstein’s private estate in the U.S. Virgin Islands. Read more about this topic Ghislaine Maxwell moved to minimum-security Texas prison camp No, Nate Silver: Epstein is not the new Russiagate Many Americans say Trump “involved” in Epstein crimes: poll By Alex Galbraith Alex Galbraith is Salon's nights and weekends editor, and author of our free daily newsletter, Crash Course. He is based in New Orleans. MORE FROM Alex Galbraith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Bill Barr Bill Clinton Department Of Justice Donald Trump Eric Holder Hillary Clinton James Comer James Comey Jeff Sessions Jeffrey Epstein Loretta Lynch Merrick Garland Robert Mueller Related Articles Advertisement: