JD Vance Had A River's Water Level Raised For His Family Vacation
JD Vance Had A River's Water Level Raised For His Family Vacation The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers confirmed that the Secret Service had contacted them with the request. By CorEy Townsend Aug 7, 2025, 03:33 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT A request from Vice President JD Vance led to a temporary rise of the Ohio River water levels to accommodate his family vacation. On Wednesday, The Guardian reported that a statement from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) stated that the Secret Service had contacted the agency to fulfill the request, citing the need for “support” for a “safe navigation” to accommodate Vance’s bodyguards on Caesar Creek Lake. Newsweek also confirmed the timing: Vance’s 41st birthday. The outlet further reported that the Secret Service stated it “conducted operational planning to ensure that motorized watercraft and emergency personnel could operate safely with appropriate water levels during a recent visit.” Advertisement But according to an exclusive anonymous source cited by The Guardian, the temporary rise in water levels wasn’t just about protecting the VP. The outlet reported the adjustment also served to create “ideal kayaking conditions” for Vance and his family. Vice President JD Vance in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. Bonnie Cash Bloomberg via Getty Images That same source said that requests for “special releases” are rarely granted when made on behalf of private citizens. Advertisement In a statement to The Guardian, the Secret Service declined to confirm the specifics of its operational planning. The outlet noted that the request had been forwarded to USACE headquarters, where spokesperson Gene Pawlik acknowledged “a request to temporarily increase outflows from Caesar Creek Lake to support safe navigation of US Secret Service personnel.” Pawlik added that the request “met the operational criteria outlined in the Water Control Manual for Caesar Creek Lake and did not require a deviation from normal procedures.” “It was determined that the operations would not adversely affect downstream or upstream water levels. Downstream stakeholders were notified in advance of the slight outflow increase, which occurred August 1, 2025,” he added. Advertisement While there’s no public evidence so far that the action broke any laws, some ethics experts are raising concerns. Vance speaks to the press on July 28, 2025 in Canton, Ohio, to promote what the Trump administration says are the benefits of the "One, Big, Beautiful Bill." Maddie McGarvey-Pool/Getty Images Richard Painter, an ethics lawyer who served in the George W. Bush administration, blasted the move in a post on X, formerly Twitter. Advertisement “As I said here, it’s outrageous for the Army corps of engineers to spend taxpayer money to increase water flow in a river so @VP can go canoeing when budget cuts to the National Park Service have severely impacted family vacations for everyone else,” Painter wrote. Former White House special counsel Norm Eisen also weighed in. “I never would have permitted this kind of a thing because whether it technically violates the rules or not, it creates the appearance that the vice-president of the United States is getting special treatment that’s not available to the average person who wants to utilize that body of water for recreational purposes,” Eisen said. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. This isn’t the first time Vance’s vacation plans have drawn scrutiny. In July, California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) took a shot at the VP during a family vacation at Disneyland. Advertisement “Hope you enjoy your family time, @JDVance. The families you’re tearing apart certainly won’t,” he said on X, formerly Twitter, on a video of Vance on vacation, in reference to the administration’s immigration policies. Vance’s office did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. Related Ohio j.d. vance JD Vance Shoves Blame On George W. Bush And Barack Obama Over Jeffrey Epstein Files JD Vance’s Old Jeffrey Epstein Posts Come Awkwardly Back To Haunt Him JD Vance’s Finger-Flipping ‘Gag’ Has Critics Cringing So Hard Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post