Crockett blasts “piece of st” Trump, Supreme Court
Advertisement: Jasmine Crockett blasts “piece of s**t” Trump, Supreme Court Crockett laid into Trump, Republican lawmakers and the Supreme Court in a heated speech By Garrett Owen National Affairs Fellow Published August 4, 2025 7:33PM (EDT) Rep. Jasmine Crockett, D-Texas, joins DNC Vice Chair Malcolm Kenyatta (D-PA) and hosts Clay Cane and Reecie Colbert for a SiriusXM Town Hall on May 08, 2025 in Washington, DC. (Leigh Vogel/Getty Images for SiriusXM) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett had some choice words for President Donald Trump in a furious speech in Phoenix on Sunday. The outspoken Democrat has never made any mystery of her extreme disdain for the president. During an appearance at the progressive group MoveOn’s Won’t Back Down Tour, Crockett took the stage and unloaded a barrage of anger on Trump and his political allies. “Listen, Donald Trump is a piece of s**t, okay?” Crockett told the crowd. “We know that. Yes, yes! He is, he is! But in a functioning democracy, he still would not be able to get away with this.” Related “People saw the money being spent”: Jasmine Crockett says wealthy elites bought the Trump presidency Crockett went on to call House Republicans “complicit” in what she sees as Donald Trump’s legally questionable leadership. “He’s been able to get away with this because Senate Republicans are complicit,” Crockett added. “But most importantly, the courts—especially the Supreme Court—are complicit!” Crockett criticized the Supreme Court for “paving the way” for Trump’s policies and having “no ethics.” She went on to accuse the highest court of corruption. “Well, we know that they’re taking money. We have the paper trail. And they refuse to put guardrails on themselves. So it’s time for us to do it for them,” she said. Crockett also criticized efforts to redraw the congressional maps in Texas. The initiative, led by Governor Greg Abbott at the prompting of Trump, could shrink the state’s Democratic delegation by as many as five seats. Crockett called the draft map “racist and anti-democratic.” Crockett could not be reached for comment. Watch Crockett’s speech below via YouTube: Read more about Jasmine Crockett Jasmine Crockett: Election a choice between a “career criminal” and “career prosecutor” “Marjorie is a little slow”: Jasmine Crockett tells Jimmy Kimmel origin of iconic “butch body” slam Texas Democrat Jasmine Crockett is going viral- just the way she wants it By Garrett Owen MORE FROM Garrett Owen Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Donald Trump Greg Abbott Jasmine Crockett Texas Related Articles Advertisement: