Charlamagne begs “donkey” Trump to keep “Epstein files” promise
Advertisement: Charlamagne begs “donkey” Trump to keep “Epstein files” promise The radio host said that the president is going back on his campaign promises to his base By Alex Galbraith Nights and Weekends Editor Published August 4, 2025 4:25PM (EDT) Charlamagne Tha God during an interview on "My View With Lara Trump" at Fox News. (Photo by Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Morning radio host Charlamagne tha God responded to Donald Trump‘s pointed weekend rant, asking the president to keep promises he made on the campaign trail around the U.S. economy and the case files of Jeffrey Epstein. Trump called Charlamagne a “racist sleazebag” on Sunday after the radio personality criticized the president during an interview with Fox News’ Lara Trump. The host of “The Breakfast Club” responded by awarding Trump the designation of “Donkey of the Day,” a long-running segment on the show that picks out a celebrity or newsmaker and ridicules their decision-making. “President Trump, do you realize the best way to get the headlines you want is to simply do a good job, is to simply do right by all Americans? He called me a racist. I didn’t mention race!” he said. “I was just talking to your base, letting your base know that you haven’t kept the promises you made in regards to the economy. In fact, you’ve made things worse. It’s actually hilarious to see you upset about the high unemployment rates when you let Elon Musk take a chainsaw to the federal government and fire a bunch of government workers earlier this year. You did that, President Trump.” Related Why MAGA can’t let go of the “Epstein files” Charlamagne, who has been similarly critical of Democratic Party politicians in the past, said Trump was acting like his predecessor. “You’re doing exactly what the Biden administration did, trying to convince America the economy is all good when it’s not,” he said. The host said he was “rooting for” Trump and wanted the U.S. to do well during his second term. He called on the president to cut down on distractions and work on improving the American economy. He also pushed Trump to be more transparent about the so-called “Epstein files.” Start your day with essential news from Salon. Sign up for our free morning newsletter, Crash Course. “I need you focused, and right now, you’re not focused. We need you focused on two things: the economy and Epstein. All right?” he said. “Whenever you see Trump trying to deflect from what’s important, keep him focused. Ask two simple questions: what about the economy? What about the Epstein files?” Watch the segment below via YouTube: Read more about Charlamagne Tha God Trump calls Charlamagne “racist sleazebag” after Fox News Epstein comments “They act so self-righteous”: Charlamagne rips Dems for claiming “high ground” after Biden pardon “Don’t know how to cover that demon”: Charlamagne Tha God bashes CNN’s normalization of Trump By Alex Galbraith Alex Galbraith is Salon's nights and weekends editor, and author of our free daily newsletter, Crash Course. He is based in New Orleans. MORE FROM Alex Galbraith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Charlamagne Tha God Donald Trump Fox News Jeffrey Epstein The Breakfast Club TRUTH Social Related Articles Advertisement: