IN a brief but interesting piece of news this past week, it was announced that a solicited proposal for the construction of a spaceport in the Philippines was included in the latest list of infrastructure project ideas approved by the government. The Philippine Space Agency (PhilSA) submitted to the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Center on July 3 a proposal presenting its vision for developing the country’s “capabilities in launching assets into space” and touting the Philippines as a “safe and sustainable gateway,” as the press release put it. Just because a project makes the PPP Center list does not mean it will happen. In fact, the record of proposed PPP projects suggests it probably would not, as many more are proposed than can actually advance beyond that first step. However, it would be nice to see this one take off, so to speak, even if it understandably may seem rather superfluous to most people here. In arguing for its proposal, PhilSA pointed out the most obvious advantage the Philippines has, which is its location. The most efficient way to launch a spacecraft to reach orbit, or beyond, is to launch it eastward from a location near the equator. The Philippines has a long stretch of coast facing the Pacific Ocean — somewhere along the eastern side of Mindanao or Samar would be an ideal location — with nothing but thousands of miles of open ocean along most any flight path. That eliminates the risk to anyone on the ground, one we are already familiar with from the frequent overflights of Chinese orbital rockets, and which has been a problem in other parts of the world, as well. Apart from being an ideal location and being able to provide a useful workforce for space-related endeavors, the Philippines doesn’t have anything else to offer potential locators, but those two factors are likely more than enough. There are hundreds of private space enterprises in the world, if one includes everyone in the vast value chain of the space industry. Even if one ignores bigger, established ones like SpaceX, United Launch Alliance, Blue Origin and Scaled Composites — all of which have their own facilities and wouldn’t need the Philippines — and the handful of national or international space agencies with full operational capabilities, there is a huge potential market. And with that market, as PhilSA noted, there is a huge potential for a great deal of innovation and technology transfer to spill over into the Philippine economy. It will be interesting to see what kind of proposals are presented for this, but to maximize the impact of knock-on benefits to the Philippines, the government should set some bounds, the first one being that the spaceport should not be built to suit the exclusive use of one company. That means SpaceX and Blue Origin can keep walking, although I would be surprised if either of them would even be interested in the first place. A good setup would be a joint venture (JV) between a capable local developer — something like Megawide or San Miguel immediately comes to mind — and one or more (probably more) space companies, with the primary focus of the JV being to build and operate the spaceport for a diverse number of customers: companies that build rockets or satellites or systems, but need a place to do business. Get the latest news delivered to your inbox Sign up for The Manila Times newsletters By signing up with an email address, I acknowledge that I have read and agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. *** While the decidedly nonspacefaring nation of the Philippines is trying to advance its bold and imaginative, but ultimately quite grounded and sensible vision for building a space industry, the world’s leader in space has devolved into buffoonery. Earlier this week, Sean Duffy, the United States’ spectacularly unqualified transportation secretary and concurrent interim administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) announced that the US space agency is moving forward with plans to build nuclear reactors on the Moon as part of “the Trump administration’s commitment to crewed spaceflight and winning the ‘second space race,’” according to the former lumberjack competition champion, reality television actor and broadcaster. Advertisement Duffy, whose first week as head of the Department of Transportation was marked by two spectacular plane crashes (one of which he blamed on diversity hiring policies at the Federal Aviation Administration), and who since has become infamous for publicly admitting that he’s terrified of riding a subway, did not give a coherent reason for launching “nukes on the moon” program now, although some media outlets have tried to normalize the out-of-context idea by offering guesses about how it could be used. Even though NASA has been considering the idea since the 1960s, there has never been anything other than basic research done on putting a nuclear reactor on the Moon. First of all, it’s a nearly impossible technical challenge, and second, there has never been — and probably never will be — a rational use case for it. Colonizing the Moon or Mars or other worlds — unless we were to happen to discover one that is pretty close to being identical to Earth — is pointless, and the only reason there is for considering even short visits by human explorers is just to be able to say we did; we have already demonstrated, many times over, that anything people can do in terms of scientific exploration can be done better and for much longer with robotic explorers. Thus, there is no real reason for some kind of long-duration power station, nuclear or otherwise, on the Moon. But of course, the proposal was not offered with any seriousness at all, but rather as part of a campaign of distractions from the Epstein matter by a regime that is desperate to keep the public from seeing the evidence that its leader is a child rapist and was an active participant in a child sex trafficking ring that carried on for years. NASA already has about half of its research funding cut, and more than half of what little remains is due to be slashed next year. The agency couldn’t engage in serious nuclear reactor research, or pay someone else to do it, even if it wanted to at this point. [email protected] Advertisement Bluesky: @benkritz.bsky.social