John Leguizamo Brutally Insults ‘Loser’ Dean Cain’s New ICE Role
John Leguizamo Brutally Insults ‘Loser’ Dean Cain’s New ICE Role “What a moron,” the actor said on Instagram Friday, adding that the former “Lois & Clark” star's pronouns are “has, been.” By David Moye Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 8, 2025, 06:15 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Actor John Leguizamo doesn’t seem too impressed with Dean Cain’s new job based on the brutal way he insulted him on social media Friday. The vocally right-wing former “Lois & Clark” star recently announced that he is joining Immigration and Customs Enforcement “to help secure the safety of all Americans, not just talk about it.” Advertisement Cain made a recruitment video to attract others to the cause, but may have caused more snark than sign-ups. Leguizamo didn’t pull punches about Cain in a video post on social media on Friday. “What kind of loser volunteers to be an ICE officer?” Leguizamo asked. “What a moron. Dean Cain, your pronouns are ‘has, been.’” View this post on Instagram A post shared by John Leguizamo (@johnleguizamo) Advertisement Leguizamo isn’t the only one going scorched-earth on Cain. Some people on social media lambasted the actor, who was born Dean George Tanaka, for not recognizing the similarities between the Trump administration’s mass deportation agenda and the incarceration of Cain’s own Japanese American family members in remote U.S. prison camps during World War II. “My family was interred in the Minidoka internment camp in Idaho,” Cain told Variety late last month. “That was a horrible injustice, but I don’t think that I deserve any sort of reparations.” Fellow Asian Americans like Margaret Cho also criticized Cain, who is of both Japanese and European heritage, on social media: Advertisement “You’re Japanese,” she said, “You’re not even white. … I know you, and you are not white. You have never been white, and no matter how many of these white activities you participate in, it’s never gonna make that happen. You’re never gonna be white, no matter how racist you are. No matter how wrong you act.” “Always wrong — never white. Dumbass,” she added. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Margaret Cho has a message for Dean George Tanaka, aka Dean Cain: pic.twitter.com/LFPjqk5QUE — Mr. Christopher (@iamalmostlegend) August 8, 2025 Related Immigration ice john leguizamo dean cain Former Superman Actor Dean Cain Joins ICE — And Fans Are Not Having It CNN Panelist Trounces Scott Jennings During Debate Over Dean Cain Joining ICE Former Superman Dean Cain Says New Superman Movie Made This 1 Brutal Mistake Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post