Trump Fires Back At Reporters Over 'Bullst' Epstein Question
Trump Fires Back At Reporters Over 'Bulls**t' Epstein Question Vice President JD Vance also denied reports of any Epstein strategy meeting. By Jazmin Tolliver Trends Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 03:24 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING President Trump went off after being questioned over reports that he was set to have a strategy meeting with his administration officials to discuss the handling of the Jeffrey Epstein files. Multiple reports on Wednesday signaled that the meeting would take place at Vice President JD Vance’s residence to discuss whether to release the transcript from Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche’s interview last month with Epstein accomplice Ghislaine Maxwell. CNN was the first to report. Advertisement The meeting was said to include Trump, Vance, White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles, Attorney General Pam Bondi, FBI Director Kash Patel and Blanche. Reporters asked Trump Wednesday about the meeting that was reportedly set to occur that evening, but the POTUS wasn’t having it. “I don’t know, I could ask you that question,” Trump fired back before looking at Vance. “I don’t know of it, but I think, here’s the man right here.” Advertisement Vance then took a swipe at the credibility of those reports. “I saw it reported today, and it’s completely fake news. We’re not meeting to talk about the Epstein situation, and I think the reporter who reported it needs to get better sources,” Vance alleged. Declaring the “whole thing is a hoax,” Trump went on to place the blame on the Democrats. “It’s put out by the Democrats because we’ve had the most successful six months in the history of our country, and that’s just a way of trying to divert attention to something that’s total bullshit. OK?” Trump added. The meeting was reportedly canceled, according to Reuters. The White House and the FBI didn’t immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. The POTUS also claimed earlier this week that he wasn’t briefed on the decision to move Maxwell from a federal prison in Florida to a federal prison in Texas. Advertisement “I didn’t know about it at all,” Trump said. “It’s not a very uncommon thing.” Maxwell, a longtime accomplice to the convicted sex offender and disgraced financier Epstein, was moved to Texas while serving her 20-year prison sentence due to her legal team appealing her case to the Supreme Court. Earlier this week, Vance’s office doubled down on denying the reports. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. “The CNN story is pure fiction. There was never a supposed meeting scheduled at the Vice President’s residence to discuss Epstein strategy,” Vance’s communications director William Martin said. Trump has repeatedly snapped at the media in recent weeks for questioning him about the Epstein files. Earlier this month, he called out his “past” supporters who believe in the Democratic “bullshit” a bunch of “weaklings” in a heated Truth Social post. Advertisement Related Donald Trump j.d. vance jeffrey epstein Trump Lashes Out At ‘Racist Sleazebag' Charlamagne Tha God After Epstein-MAGA Comment Trump Calls For New Census To Exclude Undocumented Immigrants It Took Trump 7 Years To Expel Epstein After Learning About ‘Stolen’ Staff Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post