Sydney Sweeney revealed to be registered Republican in American Eagle ad backlash
Advertisement: Sydney Sweeney revealed to be registered Republican in American Eagle ad backlash The actress affiliated with the Republican Party in the lead-up to last year's presidential election By Alex Galbraith Nights and Weekends Editor Published August 3, 2025 3:36PM (EDT) Updated August 4, 2025 8:31AM (EDT) Sydney Sweeney attends the premiere of "Eden" during the 2024 Toronto International Film Festival at Roy Thomson Hall on September 07, 2024 in Toronto, Ontario. (Emma McIntyre/WireImage/Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save The backlash against Sydney Sweeney‘s campaign for American Eagle continues, with The Guardian reporting that the “Euphoria” actress is a registered Republican in the state of Florida. The voter information search of the Florida Department of State reveals that Sweeney registered as a Republican in Monroe County, Florida. The voter record also shows that Sweeney made the choice in the lead-up to the last presidential election. Sweeney has been the subject of online griping since her American Eagle campaign debuted. The ads center on the phrase “Sydney Sweeney has great jeans,” which some viewers took to have eugenicist undertones. American Eagle responded to the uproar, saying that the campaign was about denim and nothing more. The online right, which had spent the week deriding the idea that the ad had deeper meaning, quickly celebrated the news that Sweeney registered with the GOP. Related Sydney Sweeney knows exactly what she’s doing Richard Hanania, who wrote for white supremacist news outlets under a pseudonym before becoming an above-board conservative columnist, claimed credit for Sweeney’s affiliation. “It’s been revealed that Sydney Sweeney has been a registered Republican since June 2024, just a few months after I set off the discourse about her being the end of woke,” he wrote on X. “It looks like I memed into reality the biggest Republican celebrity recruit in years.” Clay Travis, a right-wing talk show host, got his timeline mixed up, claiming that Sweeney’s just-revealed Republicanism was the source of last week’s outrage. “I thought the Sydney Sweeney attacks from the left over the blue jeans ad were super strange. But she moved to Florida and registered as a Republican last summer in the state. This is why they hate her,” he shared on X. Read more about this topic American Eagle defends “Great Jeans” campaign after backlash Sydney Sweeney’s new campaign draws fire for racial undertones Sydney Sweeney’s body-shaming is another symptom of men wanting to control women’s bodies By Alex Galbraith Alex Galbraith is Salon's nights and weekends editor, and author of our free daily newsletter, Crash Course. He is based in New Orleans. MORE FROM Alex Galbraith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Advertising American Eagle Clay Travis Eugenics Richard Hanania Social Media Sydney Sweeney Related Articles Advertisement: