Trump purges make him worse than Nixon, says Summers
Advertisement: Trump purges make him worse than Nixon, says Summers The former treasury secretary said Trump's purges of federal employees are "really scary stuff." By Alex Galbraith Nights and Weekends Editor Published August 3, 2025 3:09PM (EDT) Former Treasury Secretary & White House Economic Advisor Larry Summers is interviewed by FOX Business' Maria Bartiromo at FOX Studios on May 24, 2017 in New York City. (Robin Marchant/Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Larry Summers thinks Donald Trump has sunk lower than one of the most ill-remembered presidents in U.S. history. Trump fired the commissioner of labor statistics earlier this week after their department issued a report showing a slowdown in hiring. The president accused the appointee of toying with the numbers for political reasons. The former treasury secretary called the claim “preposterous” in an interview with ABC’s “This Week.” “These numbers are put together by teams of literally hundreds of people following detailed procedures that are in manuals,” he said. “There’s no conceivable way that the head of the [Bureau of Labor Statistics] could have manipulated this number.” Summers said that democracy is “giving way to authoritarianism” and that Trump’s purges put him in the same league as Richard Nixon. Related Trump is engaged in a slow motion Saturday Night Massacre “This is way beyond anything that Richard Nixon ever did. I’m surprised that other officials have not responded by resigning themselves, as took place when Nixon fired people lawlessly,” he said.”Firing statisticians goes with threatening the heads of newspapers, it goes with launching assaults on universities, it goes with launching assaults on law firms that defend clients that the elected boss finds uncongenial. This is really scary stuff.” Start your day with essential news from Salon. Sign up for our free morning newsletter, Crash Course. Summers’ criticism of Trump comes shortly after the president claimed he was a visitor to the private island of the late sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein. Trump, who has been dogged by his associations with Epstein, claimed he “never had the privilege” of visiting Epstein’s home in the U.S. Virgin Islands, before naming both Bill Clinton and Summers as Epstein’s one-time guests. Watch the interview below via YouTube: Read more about this topic Dismissed by DEI: Trump’s purge made Black women with stable federal jobs an “easy target” Supreme Court permits Trump’s “indefensible” Department of Education purge Trump loyalty is now part of job application By Alex Galbraith Alex Galbraith is Salon's nights and weekends editor, and author of our free daily newsletter, Crash Course. He is based in New Orleans. MORE FROM Alex Galbraith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ ABC ABC's This Week Bureau Of Labor Statistics Donald Trump Jobs Larry Summers Related Articles Advertisement: