Trump expands White House with Rose Garden overhaul, $200m ballroom
Advertisement: Trump expands White House with Rose Garden overhaul, $200m ballroom $200M event hall and redesigned Rose Garden spark debate over tradition vs. transformation By CK Smith Weekend Editor Published August 3, 2025 1:00PM (EDT) Trump paved over the lawn in the Rose Garden this Spring and has plans for a $200m ballroom expanding the White House. (JIM WATSON / AFP / Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save President Trump is reshaping the White House grounds, replacing the iconic Rose Garden lawn with a stone patio and planning a $200 million ballroom in the East Wing. The Rose Garden’s current form was shaped in 1962 under First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy, who worked with horticulturalist Rachel Lambert Mellon to create a formal yet natural space for outdoor ceremonies, press events, and state occasions. The grassy expanse has been the backdrop for decades of historic moments, from treaty signings to award presentations. In an interview with Laura Ingraham in March, Trump said that he wanted to give the space just outside his Oval Office. He did say that the roses would remain stay, just the lawn between the roses. According to The New York Times, this project is supposed “to resemble a patio like the one he has at Mar-a-Lago,” where he often meets with his club members. The White House makeover was funded by the Trust for the National Mall. First Lady Melania Trump had previously added a pathway around the lawn in 2020 to much controversy. Then, earlier this summer, that lawn was replaced with limestone pavers. Trump says the change makes the area more practical for high‑heel‑wearing guests and large gatherings. Preservationists argue it strips away a key element of Kennedy’s vision, turning an iconic ceremonial garden into what some critics have called a “parking lot” with the presidential seal embedded into the corners and U.S. flag shaped sewer drains. The new Rose Garden pic.twitter.com/TFJLTBzSno — Jonathan Karl (@jonkarl) August 1, 2025 Trump’s next step is a massive East Wing expansion to house a gilded, crystal‑chandeliered ballroom large enough for 650 guests. Privately funded by Trump and donors, construction could begin as soon as September at the cost of $200 million. It also is expected to have the same “Mar-a-Lago” feel to it. However, the White House has undergone major changes and renovation before, including expanding its footprint. The entire structure had to be rebuilt after the British torched it in the War of 1812. The West Wing and Oval Office were added, a dedicated residential wing was created and new office spaces have been built over the decades. This also included adding modern conveniences like electricity, indoor plumbing, phone lines and air-conditioning. Supporters say the latest renovations follow in that tradition, modernizing the mansion for contemporary use. Critics counter that the White House already has ample event spaces like the State Dining Room, East Room and South Lawn pavilions to host even the grandest gatherings. Read more about this topic “Two beautiful poles”: President Trump turns the White House into a joke “I felt a deep responsibility to respect tradition”: Melania Trump recounts Rose Garden revamp Twitter comes for Melania Trump on anniversary of her destruction of the White House Rose Garden By CK Smith CK Smith is Salon's weekend editor. MORE FROM CK Smith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Ballroom Donald Trump Mar-a-Lago Melania Trump Rose Garden White House Related Articles Advertisement: