Trump calls Charlamagne “racist sleazebag” after Fox News Epstein comments
Advertisement: Trump calls Charlamagne “racist sleazebag” after Fox News Epstein comments The president raged over an interview the radio host gave to his daughter-in-law By Alex Galbraith Nights and Weekends Editor Published August 3, 2025 12:07PM (EDT) US President Donald Trump delivers the commencement address at the 2025 US Military Academy Graduation Ceremony at West Point, New York, on May 24, 2025. (SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Donald Trump loves TV, so he feels particularly slighted when his favorite channels let him down. The president went off on a tirade early on Sunday following an interview Charlamagne Tha God gave to Fox News. The host of “The Breakfast Club” pointed out the schism the Trump admin has created in the MAGA movement via their handling of the case files of Jeffrey Epstein. Trump called the radio personality a “racist sleazebag” with a “low IQ.” “Why is he allowed to use the word ‘GOD’ when describing himself? Can anyone imagine the uproar there would be if I used that nickname?” Trump wrote. “He’s a Low IQ individual, has no idea what words are coming out of his mouth, and knows nothing about me or what I have done.” Trump went on to list his diplomatic wins, pointing out resolved conflicts that have Trumpworld demanding a Nobel Peace Prize for the president. “This dope, Charlamagne, would vote for Sleepy Joe or Kamala?” Trump wrote. “Remember, one year ago our Country was DEAD, now it’s the “HOTTEST” Country anywhere in the World.” Related Why MAGA can’t let go of the “Epstein files” Many Trump supporters have expressed outrage over the Department of Justice’s failure to release case files about Epstein, a convicted sex criminal who had a friendly relationship with Trump for more than a decade. In the uproar, Charlamagne heard an opportunity for the GOP to move beyond Trumpism. Start your day with essential news from Salon. Sign up for our free morning newsletter, Crash Course. “I think that traditional conservatives are going to take the Republican Party back,” Charlamagne told the president’s daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, on Saturday. “I think there’s a political coup going on right now in the Republican Party that people aren’t paying attention to.” It’s not the first time that Charlamagne has criticized Trump. In October, he called the president a “demon” during a stop by CNN. Watch Charlamagne’s interview with Lara Trump below via YouTube: Read more about Charlamagne Joe Biden: “If you have a problem figuring out whether you’re for me or Trump, then you ain’t black” “They act so self-righteous”: Charlamagne rips Dems for claiming “high ground” after Biden pardon “Don’t know how to cover that demon”: Charlamagne Tha God bashes CNN’s normalization of Trump By Alex Galbraith Alex Galbraith is Salon's nights and weekends editor, and author of our free daily newsletter, Crash Course. He is based in New Orleans. MORE FROM Alex Galbraith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Charlamagne Tha God Donald Trump Fox News Lara Trump Related Articles Advertisement: