Lawrence O'Donnell Blasts White House Press Corps For Failing To Ask Trump About Epstein
Lawrence O'Donnell Blasts White House Press Corps For Not Asking Trump About Epstein Enough The MSNBC host argued Wednesday's announcement of new tariffs was, as "every Trump meeting" is now, a distraction from his ties to the late sex offender. By Marco Margaritoff Trends Reporter Aug 7, 2025, 03:21 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING MSNBC’s Lawrence O’Donnell railed against the White House press corps Wednesday for failing to put up a united front in exclusively asking President Donald Trump about his ties to convicted sex trafficker Ghislaine Maxwell, a former associate of the late sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. Trump held a news conference in the Oval Office earlier in the day and was asked by only two reporters about Maxwell and Epstein. He called the story “bullshit” when one journalist referenced reports that Vice President JD Vance was planning to strategize on a response to the controversy during a private meeting. Advertisement Vance chimed in and claimed, “We’re not meeting to talk about the Epstein situation.” “Every meeting is about the Epstein situation,” O’Donnell argued Wednesday on “The Last Word.” “Every Trump event and every Trump meeting, Trump administration meeting, Trump White House meeting, is about the Epstein situation.” “It’s about how to extract Donald Trump from his personal history with child rapist Jeffrey Epstein, who said, quote, ‘I was Donald’s closest friend for 10 years,’” he continued. “That meeting in the Oval Office today … was about the Epstein situation.” The meeting was, at least officially, about Trump’s supposed plans to revive American manufacturing, which began in April with the announcement of steep international tariffs and continued Wednesday with a new 100% tariff on semiconductor chips. Advertisement O’Donnell, who called this levy “illegal” and “unconstitutional,” didn’t buy the theatrics. “It was about distracting attention from the Epstein situation, and it worked with almost all the White House reporters in the room who were allowed to ask questions,” he said, noting that out of the 33 questions asked, “exactly four of them were about the Epstein situation.” From left: Donald Trump and his then-girlfriend, Melania Trump, with Jeffrey Epstein and his associate Ghislaine Maxwell at Mar-a-Lago in 2000. Davidoff Studios Photography/Getty Images O’Donnell praised CBS News’ Nancy Cordes and Bloomberg’s Catherine Lucey for raising the subject, but torched the rest of the “reliably weak White House press corps” for staying silent on its latest developments — such as Maxwell’s prison transfer. Advertisement Epstein, whose documented ties to Trump span decades, died in prison in 2019 while awaiting trial on federal sex trafficking charges. Maxwell, who is seeking a deal with the administration, was moved to a minimum-security facility in Texas last week. As O’Donnell noted Monday, Trump said shortly after Maxwell’s arrest, “I wish her well.” Epstein’s death fueled rumors that many powerful figures tied to him were included on a “client list” that was among papers related to the case in the Justice Department’s possession. The administration vowed in February to release those before Trump called the documents a “hoax.” For O’Donnell and many others, including Trump voters, no story is more important. “Jeffrey Epstein is dead,” he said Wednesday. “And as long as Donald Trump is alive, Donald Trump should face questions and suspicions about his relationship with Jeffrey Epstein. And the White House press corps should unite in its pursuit of answers to those questions.” Advertisement Watch O’Donnell’s full monologue below: Related Donald Trump jeffrey epstein Lawrence O'Donnell White House press corps JD Vance Denies Plans To Strategize On Epstein Controversy [UPDATE] Ghislaine Maxwell Doesn't Want Epstein Grand Jury Transcripts Released Radio Host Throws Cold Water On Trump's Claims He's A 'Racist Sleazebag' For Epstein-MAGA Remark Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post