Kelly Clarkson's Ex-Husband Brandon Blackstock Dies At 48
Kelly Clarkson's Ex-Husband Brandon Blackstock Dead At 48 The shocking news comes as Clarkson postponed her Vegas residency. By Carly Ledbetter Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 02:24 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT Kelly Clarkson and Brandon Blackstock attend the 2018 CMT Music Awards on June 6, 2018, in Nashville, Tennessee. Jeff Kravitz via Getty Images Kelly Clarkson’s ex-husband, Brandon Blackstock, has died of cancer, multiple outlets confirmed on Thursday. He was 48. “It is with great sadness that we share the news that Brandon Blackstock has passed away,” a rep for the family told People in a statement. Advertisement “Brandon bravely battled cancer for more than three years. He passed away peacefully and was surrounded by family. We thank you for your thoughts and prayers and ask everyone to respect the family’s privacy during this very difficult time.” Clarkson and Blackstock share two children: River Rose, 11, and Remington Alexander, 9. The former couple were married for nearly seven years before splitting in 2020. Blackstock also has two children, Savannah and Seth, from a previous marriage. He became a grandfather in 2022, according to People. Advertisement Blackstock, who was once the former stepson of country great Reba McEntire, worked as a talent manager. Kelly Clarkson, Brandon Blackstock, Savannah Blackstock, River Rose Blackstock, Remington Alexander Blackstock and Seth Blackstock attend the premiere of "UglyDolls" on April 27, 2019 in LA. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images The news about Blackstock comes as a shock, as it was not previously known that he was ill until yesterday. Advertisement Clarkson announced on Wednesday that she was postponing her Las Vegas residency because her ex-husband was sick. “While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father has been ill and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them,” she said at the time, adding that she is “sincerely sorry to everyone who bought tickets to the shows.” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Clarkson had previously postponed her Vegas residency before her debut in July, citing vocal concerns. Advertisement She was also notably absent from her talk show earlier this year, though she never publicly disclosed why. Related obituary kelly clarkson brandon blackstock Kelly Clarkson Suspends Las Vegas Residency Due To Ex-Husband's Illness Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post