Over 1,000 pounds of frozen ground beef have been recalled due to potential metal contamination
Advertisement: Over 1,000 pounds of frozen ground beef have been recalled due to potential metal contamination A recall was issued Tuesday following a consumer complaint By Joy Saha Staff Writer Published August 1, 2025 1:05PM (EDT) Ground beef being cooked in a pan (Carmen Martínez Torrón / Getty Images ) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Ada Valley Meat Company has recalled approximately 1,065 pounds of fully cooked frozen ground beef due to potential metal contamination, according to a Tuesday announcement from the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS). The affected product was packed on May 28, 2025 and May 30, 2025 in 20-pound cardboard box cases containing five-pound plastic bags with lot codes 35156 and 35157 on their labels. The product was shipped to several establishments and distributors in California, Delaware, Illinois, Michigan and Pennsylvania. A recall was issued after a consumer complaint reported pieces of metal were found in the ground beef products. Per the FSIS, there have been no confirmed reports of injury at this time. Consumers who are concerned about an injury should contact a healthcare provider, the agency stated. Related Martinelli’s recalls over 170,000 bottles of apple juice due to potentially toxic substances “FSIS is concerned that some products may be in institutional freezers,” the recall specified. “Institutions who have purchased these products are urged not to serve these products. These products should be thrown away or returned to the place of purchase.” “FSIS wants to make sure consumers are aware that some of the recalled products could bear a different establishment number on the label due to further distribution and processing by other establishments. Consumers are urged to carefully review the information in this announcement, including the product and label information. Please check back frequently as additional products could be added.” Read more about recalls: Tony’s Chocolonely recalls bars over small stone contamination Over 200,000 pounds of liquid egg products recalled due to potential cleaning solution contamination “Foreign object”: Coca-Cola recalls 10,000 cans due to plastic contamination By Joy Saha Joy Saha is a staff writer at Salon. She writes about food news and trends and their intersection with culture. She holds a BA in journalism from the University of Maryland, College Park. MORE FROM Joy Saha Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Brief Food News Food Recall FSIS Ground Beef Metal Contamination USDA Related Articles Advertisement: