Kamala Harris to Stephen Colbert America is “broken”
Advertisement: Kamala Harris to Stephen Colbert: America is “broken” From late‑night laughs to a candid critique, Harris lays out life after the 2024 campaign By CK Smith Weekend Editor Published August 1, 2025 1:00PM (EDT) The Late Show with Stephen Colbert and guest Vice President Kamala Harris during Thursday’s July 31, 2025 show. (Scott Kowalchyk/CBS) Facebook X Reddit Email Save Appearing on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert Thursday night, former vice president Kamala Harris delivered her most candid assessment yet of America’s political health: it’s “broken.” In her first major interview since the 2024 election, Harris reflected on the state of U.S. democracy and her own political future. She lamented what she described as “capitulation” by the very institutions meant to safeguard democratic norms — Congress, the courts, and other pillars of governance. “There are so many extraordinary people serving this country,” she told Colbert. “But the system itself is failing to defend the principles we stand for.” Before diving into the politics, Harris eased into the conversation with a grin. When Colbert welcomed her back to the public stage, she quipped, “Well, I’ve got some things to say… and you’re safer than Twitter.” The audience roared. Harris confirmed she will not run for governor of California and, for now, has no plans to re‑enter electoral politics. Her decision, she said, was less about strategy and more about refusing to participate in a structure she believes is fundamentally dysfunctional. “It’s not about sparing myself,” she explained. “It’s about recognizing that this system — as it is — is not working.” Still, Harris insisted she is not retreating from public life. She plans to travel the country, engage directly with communities, and hold what she called “non‑transactional conversations” — dialogues that aren’t about asking for votes but about listening. Her appearance also previewed her forthcoming memoir, 107 Days, due in September. Colbert joked the title could be “the world’s most stressful summer job.” Harris laughed, admitting, “It felt longer.” Read more about Kamala Harris Kamala Harris rules out run for California governor More than racism or sexism it was corporatism: What Democrats must learn from Kamala Harris’ defeat Kamala Harris is all in By CK Smith CK Smith is Salon's weekend editor. MORE FROM CK Smith Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Kamala Harris Late Show With Stephen Colbert Memoir Stephen Colbert Related Articles Advertisement: