Rosalia's Gaza Controversy Raises Valid Questions About Performative Activism
Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Voices · Does Rosalía’s ‘Silence’ On Gaza Mean That Activism Only Happens Online? "I think about my own anxieties while on social media: Should I be posting more about Gaza? If I do, is it actually going to help anyone?" Rosalia arrives at the 24th annual Latin Grammy Awards in Seville, Spain, on Nov. 16, 2023. Vianney Le Caer via Associated Press By Ian Kumamoto Contributing Writer Aug 7, 2025, 02:16 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT Spanish fashion designer Miguel Adrover made waves last week after he posted a screenshot of a controversial exchange he had with Rosalía’s team. In it, her team asked Adrover for a custom look for the Spanish singer, and Adrover’s team reportedly responded by saying, “Miguel doesn’t work with any artist who doesn’t publicly support Palestina.” The caption on Adrover’s Instagram reads: “Doing ‘The Right Thing’….Silence is complicity, and even more so when you have a big loudspeaker where millions of people listen to you when you sing. That’s why you have the responsibility to use this power to denounce this genocide. Rosalia, this is nothing personal.” The next day, Rosalía posted an Instagram story in response expressing that she was, in fact, horrified at what was happening in Palestine and expressed gratitude for people who were in the frontlines of the war. Then she added: “The fact that I haven’t used my platform in a way that aligns with others’ styles or expectations absolutely does not mean that I don’t condemn what is happening in Palestine.” Commenters had mixed responses about Rosalía’s post. Advertisement For the past several days, I haven’t been able to stop thinking about this interaction, mostly because I’m a fan of Rosalía’s music, but also because it brought up a pretty valid question about what truly constitutes activism. When she pointed out that she might not be protesting in line with people’s “styles or expectations,” I thought about anxieties that I’ve had myself while on social media: Should I be posting more about the injustices being committed in Gaza? If I do, is it actually going to help anyone? And more importantly — am I posting because I genuinely think it’s going to help, or am I posting to signal to others that I care? I’m fairly certain others like me are contemplating the same anxieties. Advertisement On the other hand, I empathize with Adrover’s stance. We live in a time when speaking out about Palestine isn’t always the safe thing to do. And many famous artists hesitate to speak out because it comes across as choosing a side, therefore alienating fans and ultimately messing with their status and income. Whether people agree with how he handled this particular situation or not, he did get Rosalía to publicly take a stance on the issue when she hadn’t before. It could be argued that we live at a moment of such moral urgency that a little bit of prodding and social pressure isn’t the worst thing, but I also believe that supporting Gaza has to amount to more than just reposts on social media. Many of us who do care about social issues have become increasingly fatigued with social media activism, especially under the current administration, when we’re seeing new attacks on marginalized communities every day. A 2022 study even suggested that engagement with online activism can lead to increased mental stress. Advertisement Rosalía has a right to her opinion about people having different styles of protest — being vocal online is not authentic to everyone. But as a person who believes that not expressing a stance is, in itself, an indication of being complicit with oppression, Rosalía should be backing up her sentiment with evidence that she was participating in some other way. It could be by donating money to organizations behind the scenes, seeking out and hiring people of Palestinian descent for projects, or even incorporating her support for Gazans into her art. Her point fell flat when she didn’t provide other ways in which she’s actively participated in some way. If there ever was ambiguity about the war in Gaza being a humanitarian disaster that we should all be condemning, there’s certainly none now. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. The question now is, how do we all participate in ways that feel authentic to us and are actually productive, and not based on virtue signaling and projecting valid frustrations on people who, ultimately, aren’t fueling the problem. If there’s one lesson I learned from 2020’s “racial awakening,” it’s that our attention is a limited resource, and we should be very intentional about how we use it. Advertisement Related gaza celebrity Palestine Activism Voices Olivia Rodrigo Calls Israel-Gaza Violence 'Horrific' And 'Completely Unacceptable' Popular Kids Entertainer Says She’ll Risk Her Career To Stand Up For Children In Gaza Ms. Rachel Calls Out Media Outlets For Highlighting Olivia Munn Over Children In Gaza Sharon Osbourne Wants This Band's Visa Revoked After They Got Political At Coachella Anti-War Israelis Fear Speaking Up For Gaza. Over 100 Medical Workers Are Doing It Anyway. Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Black Voices Amplifying Black voices through news that matters. Successfully Signed Up! Stories that matter delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Voices NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post