Smithsonian erases Trump’s impeachments from history museum exhibit
Advertisement: Smithsonian erases Trump’s impeachments from history museum exhibit Critics call the removal political and an attempt to rewrite history By Blaise Malley National Affairs Fellow Published August 1, 2025 11:10AM (EDT) The latest casualty to political sanitization is the Smithsonian's Museum of American History. (RiverNorthPhotography / Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save In a move that has reignited concerns over political interference in cultural institutions, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American History has removed references to Donald Trump’s two impeachments from an exhibit on the American Presidency. The Washington Post reported this week that the museum had taken down a temporary label that outlined Trump’s unique distinction as the only U.S. president impeached twice. The label was added in 2021. The change was made in July as part of what the Post described as a “content review” that the institution had agreed to take on under pressure from the White House. Related The art of resistance: Trump’s attack on humanities triggers a blowback movement “In reviewing our legacy content recently, it became clear that the ‘Limits of Presidential Power’ section in The American Presidency: A Glorious Burden exhibition needed to be addressed,” a Smithsonian spokesperson said in a statement to the Post. “The section of this exhibition covers Congress, The Supreme Court, Impeachment and Public Opinion. Because the other topics in this section had not been updated since 2008, the decision was made to restore the Impeachment case back to its 2008 appearance.” With the reversion to the 2008 version, the exhibit now states only that “three presidents have seriously faced removal from office”, referring also to Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, the two presidents other than Trump to have been impeached, and the near-impeachment of Richard Nixon. After the Post story was published, the American history museum said in a statement that “a future and updated exhibit will include all impeachments” but did not provide an exact timeline. This is not the first time the Trump administration has clashed with the Smithsonian this year. In March, Trump signed Executive Order 14253, which aimed to shape how the story of American history is told. According to the the president’s order, “the Smithsonian Institution has, in recent years, come under the influence of a divisive, race-centered ideology,” and the policy would seek “to remove improper ideology from such properties.” Just months later, National Portrait Gallery director Kim Sajet resigned after efforts by the White House to remove her, saying that stepping down was the best way to serve the museum’s interests. The president had accused her of being “highly partisan and a strong supporter of DEI.” Now, with the American History Museum’s removal of Trump’s impeachments from its exhibit, critics are condemning both the museum and the president for what they see as an attempt to erase recent history. “Look, Trump is who he is. He’s a pathological liar. He’s incapable of shame. He’s a fascist. Does no good to call him out,” wrote former GOP Congressman Joe Walsh on X. “It’s time to call out the fascist’s enablers — all those who bow to & cave to him. Shame on you Smithsonian.” “Trump can pretend it didn’t happen all he wants, but the facts don’t lie — he was impeached twice,” added Rep. Mark Pocan, D-Wisc. “I know. I was there.” Read more about censorship “Remove improper ideology”: Trump puts Vance in charge of purging the Smithsonian Institution “It’s sickening”: Trump order censoring Black history displays a “fundamental misunderstanding” The long fight to build the National Museum of African American History and Culture By Blaise Malley Blaise Malley is a national affairs fellow at Salon. MORE FROM Blaise Malley Related Topics ------------------------------------------ America History Museum Censorship Donald Trump Smithsonian Related Articles Advertisement: