Leavitt It’s time Trump won a Nobel Peace Prize
Advertisement: Leavitt: It’s time Trump won a Nobel Peace Prize Listing a number of Trump’s peace deals, Leavitt said it's “well past time” that Trump was recognized By Cheyenne McNeill National Affairs Fellow Published July 31, 2025 6:53PM (EDT) White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt during the daily briefing, July 7, 2025. (Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP via Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said it’s “well past time” that President Donald Trump received the Nobel Peace Prize. In a press briefing on Thursday, Leavitt listed peace deals the Trump administration has brokered since taking office in January. The Trump spokesperson pointed toward the president’s mediation of the conflict between Thailand and Cambodia as a recent example of the president’s peacemaker bona fides. “On the peace front, President Trump helped deliver an immediate and unconditional ceasefire between Thailand and Cambodia. The two countries were engaged in a deadly conflict that had displaced more than 300,000 people until President Trump stepped in to put an end to it,” Leavitt said. She argued that the president has more than just recency on his side, citing conflicts between Israel and Iran, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India and Pakistan, Serbia and Kosovo and Egypt and Ethiopia that were resolved on Trump’s watch. “President Trump has brokered, on average, about one peace deal or ceasefire per month during his six months in office,” Leavitt said. Related Trump’s driving goal of destruction: A Nobel Peace Prize Trump has long pleaded his own case before the Nobel committee. He’s recently been joined by other world leaders. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent a letter to the Nobel Prize committee earlier this month nominating Trump for the award. In June, Pakistan said it would nominate Trump for a Nobel Peace Prize for his “decisive diplomatic intervention and pivotal leadership during the recent India-Pakistan crisis.” Trump’s inner circle isn’t content with just one trip to the podium. White House trade adviser Peter Navarro suggested Trump win a Nobel Prize in Economics on Thursday while speaking with Fox Business. “I’m thinking that since he’s basically taught the world trade economics, he might be up for the Nobel on economics because this is a fundamental restructuring of the international trade environment in a way where the biggest market in the world has said, you’re not going to cheat us anymore,” Navarro said. Read more about the Trump administration American democracy is crashing out and it will be hard to reverse, international rights group warns As the “Tariff Man,” Trump is creating the Second Gilded Age Trump and the GOP don’t care for health caregivers By Cheyenne McNeill Cheyenne McNeill is a national affairs fellow at Salon. MORE FROM Cheyenne McNeill Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Donald Trump Karoline Leavitt Trump Administration Related Articles Advertisement: