Trump vents as Canada prepares to recognize Palestinian state
Advertisement: Trump vents as Canada prepares to recognize Palestinian state The president said Canada's decision to recognize Palestine may hinder upcoming trade talks By Garrett Owen National Affairs Fellow Published July 31, 2025 6:35PM (EDT) US President Donald Trump speaks before signing the Laken Riley Act in the East Room of the White House in Washington, DC, January 29, 2025. (ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AFP via Getty Images) Facebook X Reddit Email Save President Donald Trump is unhappy with Canada‘s decision to recognize the state of Palestine. Just days ahead of joint trade talks with the important U.S. trading partner, Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney announced that Canada would join Western allies France and the United Kingdom in pledging to recognize Palestine as a sovereign territory, under certain conditions. “Canada has long been committed to a two-state solution,” Carney said in a post on X, calling for “an independent, viable, and sovereign Palestinian state living side by side with the State of Israel in peace and security.” In July, Trump announced a 35% tariff on imports of certain Canadian goods that is set to take effect tomorrow. Trump criticized Canada on Truth Social, blaming Carney for complicating a potential trade agreement as the two countries head toward the negotiating table. “Wow,” wrote the president in his post. “Canada has just announced that it is backing statehood for Palestine. That will make it very hard for us to make a Trade Deal with them. Oh’ Canada!!!” Related Keep calm and stay Canadian In a press briefing on Thursday, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt expanded on the president’s post. “The president expressed his displeasure and his disagreement with the leaders of France, the United Kingdom and Canada,” she said. Leavitt noted that the White House believes that recognizing Palestine would be “rewarding Hamas.” In his announcement of recognition, Carney called on the Palestinian Authority to institute “much-needed reforms” and a general election in 2026. In addition, he demanded that “Hamas play no part” in the elections. Read more about Trump vs. Canada “This is a direct attack”: Canadian PM mulls retaliation over Trump’s 25% auto tariffs “Fat, dumb, foolish country”: Trump says US has been “pillaged” via trade deals “Canada will never be part of America”: Trudeau’s replacement immediately takes it to Trump By Garrett Owen MORE FROM Garrett Owen Related Topics ------------------------------------------ Canada Donald Trump Gaza Mark Carney Palestine Tariffs Trade Trump Related Articles Advertisement: