Photos of the Week Alligator Dip, Steeplechase Stumble, Friendship Day
Photography Photos of the Week: Alligator Dip, Steeplechase Stumble, Friendship Day A Pride canal parade in Amsterdam, the Jubilee of Youth prayer vigil in Rome, the World Dog Surfing Championships in California, a rally race through a Finnish forest, wildfires in France, and much more By Alan Taylor August 8, 2025 Share Save Roman Pilipey / AFP / Getty Ukrainian service members of the 59th brigade’s mobile-air-defense unit fire a Soviet-made ZU-23 anti-aircraft twin-barrel auto-cannon toward a Russian drone, during an air attack near Pavlohrad, Dnipropetrovsk region, on July 19, 2025, amid Russia’s ongoing invasion of Ukraine. Badan Geologi / AP In this photo released by the Geological Agency of Indonesia’s Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, lightning strikes as Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki spews volcanic material during an eruption in East Flores, Indonesia, on August 1, 2025. Carlos Gil Andreu / Getty Flames burn through trees and bushes during the Cerro de los Pinos wildfire, in Cáceres, Spain, on August 4, 2025. Olivier Chassignole / AFP / Getty Tourists walk on a beach as smoke from wildfires raging in France’s Aude department is visible from the Mediterranean Coast in Banyuls-sur-Mer, in southwestern France, on August 5, 2025. The fire broke out earlier that afternoon in Ribaute, burning more than 9,000 acres of forest and scrubland in just a few hours, before reaching the village of Saint-Laurent-de-la-Cabrerisse, where a number of houses burned down. McKlein Photography / LAT Images / Getty Kalle Rovanperä competes in his Toyota GR Yaris Rally1 during Day 3 of WRC Rally Finland, in Jyväskylä, Finland, on August 2, 2025. Omer Abrar / AFP / Getty Men use a boat to transport their vehicles across the Kokcha River on the outskirts of the Fayzabad district of Badakhshan province, Afghanistan, on August 7, 2025. Niharika Kulkarni / AFP / Getty A large statue of hands rises above the flooded Namo Ghat, along the Ganges River, following monsoon rains in Varanasi, India, on August 1, 2025. Johnny Hayward / Getty Tristan Duplan Fribourg of France performs a trick during the men’s preliminary event at the 2025 IWWF World Under 21 Waterski Championships, at Predator Bay Water Ski Club, in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, on August 1, 2025. Eakin Howard / AP Steve Drottar helps the dog Rosie catch a wave during the World Dog Surfing Championships, in Pacifica, California, on August 2, 2025. Tang Dehong / VCG / Getty Villagers row water-chestnut buckets side by side as they harvest water chestnuts, in Taizhou, Jiangsu province, China, on August 6, 2025. Umut Karahasanoglu / Anadolu / Getty Silhouettes of nomads on horseback reflect in a pond at sunset in the mountainous highlands of Kyrgyzstan. Jack Guez / AFP / Getty From the Israeli side of the border with the Gaza Strip, the sun sets behind destroyed buildings in the Palestinian territory, on August 7, 2025. Eyad Baba / AFP / Getty Palestinians rush to retrieve aid packages during an airdrop over Nuseirat, in the central Gaza Strip, on August 6, 2025. Fadel Dawod / Getty Police confront pro-Palestinian demonstrators outside the Dutch Parliament, on August 7, 2025, in The Hague, Netherlands, as lawmakers convened an emergency session to discuss the escalation of violence in Gaza. Dutch Foreign Minister Caspar Veldkamp said on Thursday, “The Netherlands is not planning to recognize a Palestinian state at this time.” Jorge Silva / Reuters A Pataxó woman attends the IV March of Indigenous Women, in defense of women’s rights, local Indigenous people, and the environment, in Brasilia, Brazil, on August 7, 2025. Abhisek Saha / Middle East Images / AFP / Getty A group of students celebrate Friendship Day by writing friendship messages on one another’s arms, in Agartala, Tripura, India, on August 3, 2025. Vatican Media / Getty Pope Leo XIV arrives on a helicopter in Tor Vergata for the Jubilee of Youth prayer vigil, on August 2, 2025, in Rome, Italy. The Vatican expected half a million young Catholics to arrive for the jubilee. Dingena Mol / ANP / AFP / Getty Participants watch a person using a Flyboard during the Canal Parade in Amsterdam, on August 2, 2025. The boat parade is part of the annual Amsterdam Pride. Thanassis Stavrakis / AP A kiteboarder performs a jump during a windy day in Agios Nikolaos, east of Athens, Greece, on August 7, 2025. Ashley Landis / AP Gracie Hyde stumbles as she competes in the women’s 3,000-meter steeplechase finals during the U.S. Championships athletics meet, in Eugene, Oregon, on August 2, 2025. Bruna Casas / Reuters A group of people practice yoga during sunrise at the beach, in Barcelona, Spain, on August 5, 2025. Niklas Halle'N / AFP / Getty A a staff member holds the helmet of the character Sauron in the Lord of the Rings film trilogy during a press preview of movie props set to go up for auction, in London, on August 6, 2025. Zhang Xiangyi / China News Service / VCG / Getty A visitor interacts with a robotic hand, at the Robot Mall in Yizhuang district, Beijing, China, on August 4, 2025. VCG / Getty A cluster of space-capsule homestays overlooks rolling hills, at the Shuimo Danxia scenic area, in Lanzhou, Gansu province, China, on August 1, 2025. Michael Probst / AP Straw bales are decorated as a wedding couple to point out an upcoming wedding, in the outskirts of Frankfurt, Germany, on August 4, 2025. Petr David Josek / AP Lions named Bart and Khalila interact in their enclosure at a zoo in the Czech Republic, on August 6, 2025. Ramon Espinosa / AP Stray cats gather on a table at the protected cat colony Proyecto Aldameros, in a park in the historic area of Havana, Cuba, on August 5, 2025. Lisi Niesner / Reuters Former circus artist Krystian Kaulis takes a swim with Mrs. Meyer, an American alligator, in an outdoor pool, in Elmenhorst, Germany, on August 1, 2025. About the Author Alan Taylor Alan Taylor is a senior editor at The Atlantic.