New Paramount CEO Admits ‘Challenging Period’ For CBS News
New Paramount CEO Gets Candid About ‘Challenging Period’ For CBS News The company's new CEO, David Ellison, acknowledged the merger's bumpy road in an open letter. By Ryan Grenoble Senior Reporter Aug 7, 2025, 01:05 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING With the Thursday morning close of Paramount Global and Skydance Media’s troubled $8.4 billion merger comes a new set of challenges: actually running the thing. The company’s new CEO, David Ellison, acknowledged the merger’s bumpy road in an open letter addressed to the company’s employees, shareholders and customers on Thursday. Advertisement While most of the letter uses corporate-speak to look optimistically ahead, Ellison briefly broke character as he reflected on the company’s news division. “We recognize it’s been a challenging period and we’re deeply grateful for your resilience, professionalism, and unwavering commitment to the news business,” wrote Ellison. “We take immense pride in CBS News’ legacy of impactful journalism and look forward to continuing to foster a newsroom culture where journalists are empowered, trusted, and equipped to do their best work.” Advertisement Federal Communications Commission chair and Project 2025 author Brendan Carr signed off on the merger late last month, ominously predicting “significant changes” at the network to come. “Americans no longer trust the legacy national news media to report fully, accurately, and fairly. It is time for a change,” Carr said, signaling he expects a Trump-friendly shift in programming. “That is why I welcome Skydance’s commitment to make significant changes at the once storied CBS broadcast network. In particular, Skydance has made written commitments to ensure that the new company’s programming embodies a diversity of viewpoints from across the political and ideological spectrum.” Advertisement The first of those changes would seem to be the cancellation of “The Late Show,” where host Stephen Colbert has long delighted in skewering Trump. (CBS maintains the move was “purely a financial decision.”) The approval itself was preceded by Paramount settling a lawsuit for $16 million that Trump filed during the 2024 presidential election over what he claimed was a deceptively edited “60 Minutes” interview. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Even though legal experts called the case meritless, the network is also said to have offered Trump an additional $16 million in free advertising for conservative PSAs as part of the settlement to sweeten the pot. Advertisement “We did a deal for about $16 million plus $16 million, or maybe more than that in advertising,” Trump bragged at the time, according to a White House press pool report from The Washington Post’s Cat Zakrzewski. “So it’s a combination of 16 plus 16 plus. So it’s like $32 [million] to maybe $35 million.” Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) have called for an investigation into the latter part of that deal, saying it “raises fresh questions about corruption.” Related CBS News Paramount 'Looks Like Bribery!': Critics Say This 1 Colbert Joke May Have Gotten 'Late Show' Canceled Trump-Favoring FCC Chair Takes Aim At Democrats 'Wailing' Over Colbert Cancellation Paramount's Outrageous '60 Minutes' Settlement May Be Even Worse Than It Appears 'They Are Next': Trump Sends Chilling Warning To Jimmy Kimmel, Other Hosts Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post