Birminghammail Live Icon Sport Football Aston Villa FC Aston Villa team news vs Marseille confirmed as Unai Emery makes Evann Guessand decision Aston Villa's starting XI to face Marseille in pre-season has been confirmed Comments Sport John Townley Aston Villa correspondent 17:06, 09 Aug 2025Updated 17:38, 09 Aug 2025 Aston Villa manager Unai Emery Unai Emery has selected his starting XI to face Marseille in Aston Villa’s seventh pre-season friendly of the summer. ‌ Villa earned their second win of the summer against AS Roma on Wednesday night, following a 2-1 victory at St. Louis in Missouri last week. ‌ Emery's side will conclude their pre-season programme with a trip to Villarreal tomorrow, giving the players who don’t feature today an opportunity to potentially get 90 minutes under their belts before the Premier League campaign starts next weekend. ‌ Today, Marco Bizot starts in goal behind a defence of Matty Cash, Lamare Bogarde, Tyrone Mings and Lucas Digne. Amadou Onana and George Hemmings operate in the double pivot, while Samuel Iling-Junior, John McGinn and Jacob Ramsey support the striker, Donyell Malen. New signing Evann Guessand starts on the bench, which includes 18 players. Article continues below Villa XI vs Marseille: Bizot, Cash, Bogarde, Mings, Digne, Onana, Hemmings, Iling-Jr, McGinn, Ramsey, Malen. Subs: Martinez, Proctor, Konsa, Tielemans, Buendia, Watkins, Pau, Moreno, Maatsen, Guessand, Bailey, Dobbin, Kamara, Rowe, Patterson, Jimoh-Aloba, Mosquera, Burrowes. Follow Marseille vs Aston Villa LIVE here Get your Aston Villa pre-season special edition of the Birmingham Mail It promises to be an exciting season ahead for Aston Villa as Unai Emery's side look to build on last season's efforts and will look to finish even higher this time around. Despite not achieving the same feat of the 2023/2024 season by securing a UEFA Champion's League spot — the 2024/25 campaign proved to be a decent one for the Villains. Villa managed to get into continental football by qualifying for the Europa League and will play their third consecutive season of European competition. It looks as though there is a lot to look forward to this coming campaign. And with that in mind, we have produced our Aston Villa 2025/26 Kick-Off special — our brilliant guide to the new season. Our team will help you navigate through what to expect from your team this coming season, turn the spotlight on Emery while also providing in-depth analysis and opinion on your club. We look at the summer's biggest signings, check out each ground, study the managers - new and old - and test your knowledge with our Premier League quiz. And we also have a full fixtures guide so you don't miss a game in what is set to be a thrilling season. The guide is available at retailers from August 6 but can be pre-ordered online now and it is a must have for any Aston Villa fan. It is the perfect accompaniment to the season and you can own it before the squad's opening fixture of the Premier League when they welcome Newcastle United to Villa Park on Saturday, August, 16. Priced £3.50, pre-order your copy now from our online store and get it delivered direct to your door. Available to purchase in most supermarkets, high street retailers and independent newsagents in Birmingham from August 6, 2025. For online purchases, postage and packaging applies. Worldwide shipping is available. ‌ Every day, the BirminghamLive football desk strive to deliver all manner of news, features and transfer-related stories as a part of our overall package of Aston Villa content. Our dedicated reporter John Townley - who you can follow on X by clicking here - follows Villa home and away and offers you comprehensive coverage from matchdays, press conferences and everything that happens in between. So much happens day to day and sometimes you can struggle to keep on top of the very latest updates as and when they occur - that's why we have produced a daily newsletter which you can sign up to, for free, and which means you'll have a round-up of the key stories land in your email inbox. Sign up to the Villa newsletter here . Article continues below You can also get all your favourite content from BirminghamLive's Villa team on WhatsApp. Click here to sign up for breaking updates about the biggest stories in and around the club. If you prefer reading our Villa stories on your phone, consider downloading the BirminghamLive app, in which you can personalise the content you see by selecting Villa as one of your designated topics. You can get it from Apple here and for Android here . Our weekly Aston Villa podcast, Claret And Blue, is also available to watch and listen on all major streaming services. You can subscribe to the YouTube channel here , while you can access the podcast on Spotify here and via Apple here . Follow Birmingham Live: Facebook X (Twitter) Instagram Comments ‌ ‌ ‌ Aston Villa FC