New York Times Rebukes Netanyahu Legal Threat With Strong Statement
New York Times Rebukes Netanyahu Legal Threat With Strong Statement The Israeli Prime Minister, who was accused last year of crimes against humanity, threatened on Fox News this week to sue the Times over its reporting on Gaza. By Marco Margaritoff Trends Reporter Aug 8, 2025, 06:09 PM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING The New York Times issued a strong statement Thursday in response to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who told Fox News during a sit-down interview this week that the paper should be sued over its reporting on Israel’s ongoing assault on Gaza. “I’m actually looking at whether a country can sue The New York Times,” Netanyahu said in the interview, which aired Thursday. “And I’m looking into it right now because I think it’s such... it’s such clear defamation.” Advertisement Netanyahu was referring to a front-page Times report on the mass starvation of besieged Palestinians in Gaza. His gripe appears to be that the story didn’t originally note that one of the malnourished boys featured in the piece suffered from pre-existing health issues, which may have affected his physique. Netanyahu told Fox News that the reported rise of antisemitism is tied directly to a “campaign of vilification that is done by so-called reputable news media” — and slammed the Times for updating the story with what he called a lacking editor’s note on July 29. The editor’s note reads, “This article has been updated to include information about Mohammed Zakaria al-Mutawaq, a child in Gaza suffering from severe malnutrition. After publication of this article, The Times learned from his doctor that Mohammed also had pre-existing health problems.” Advertisement The Times rebuked Netanyahu, whose relentless bombing campaign in Gaza saw him accused last year of crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court, in a statement Thursday that also sternly defied his threat against a free American press. “Children in Gaza are malnourished and starving, as New York Times reporters and others have documented,” read the statement. “Mr. Netanyahu is referring to an update we made to a story about how the food crisis is affecting the civilian population. “After publication, we learned that a child shown in that story — in addition to being severely malnourished — also had pre-existing health conditions,” the Times continued. “That additional information gave readers a greater understanding of his situation.” Advertisement The paper then addressed Netanyahu’s consideration of taking legal action. “Attempts to threaten independent media providing vital information and accountability to the public are unfortunately an increasingly common playbook,” the Times continued, in an apparent nod to President Donald Trump and his litigious assaults on the media. The paper noted that journalists will “continue to report from Gaza for The Times, bravely, sensitively, and at personal risk, so that readers can see firsthand the consequences of the war,” which has killed or injured more than 50,000 children in Gaza since October 2023. Netanyahu claimed on Fox News that papers like the Times contribute to antisemitism. Julia Demaree Nikhinson/Associated Press Advertisement On Thursday, World Health Organization director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said an estimated 12,000 children in Gaza under 5 years of age are suffering from acute malnutrition. He said the number, identified in July, was “the highest monthly figure ever recorded.” During that same Fox News interview in which he threatened to sue the Times, Netanyahu claimed that the shocking images of Gaza’s flattened landscape aren’t due to Israel’s airstrikes over the past 22 months — but the result of “booby traps” laid by terrorists. 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. He then confirmed his military plans to take control of the entire Palestinian territory. Related Israel gazaPalestineBenjamin NetanyahuThe New York Times Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up The Morning Email Wake up to the day's most important news. Sign up for HuffPost's Morning Email. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In U.S. News NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost News. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post