Seven Reads for a Summer Weekend
The Atlantic Daily Seven Reads for a Summer Weekend Spend time with stories about teens forgoing a classic rite of passage, the one book everyone should check out, and more. By Stephanie Bai Roc Canals / Getty August 3, 2025 Share Save This is an edition of The Atlantic Daily, a newsletter that guides you through the biggest stories of the day, helps you discover new ideas, and recommends the best in culture. Sign up for it here. On your Sunday, explore stories about the one book everyone should read, what McKinsey did to the middle class, and more. Teens Are Forgoing a Classic Rite of Passage Fewer young people are getting into relationships. By Faith Hill The One Book Everyone Should Read The Atlantic’s staffers on the books they share—again and again By The Atlantic Culture Desk Why South Park Did an About-Face on Mocking Trump The show’s creators once said they had nothing more to say about the president. What changed their minds? By Paula Mejía A Defense Against Gaslighting Sociopaths If you can recognize their signature move, then forewarned is forearmed. By Arthur C. Brooks 10 “Scary” Movies for People Who Don’t Like Horror You can handle these, we promise. (From 2022) By David Sims How McKinsey Destroyed the Middle Class Technocratic management, no matter how brilliant, cannot unwind structural inequalities. (From 2020) By Daniel Markovits Homes Still Aren’t Designed for a Body Like Mine Why is it so hard for disabled people to find safe, accessible places to live? By Jessica Slice The Week Ahead Greetings From Your Hometown, a new album by the Jonas Brothers (out Friday) People Like Us, by the National Book Award–winner Jason Mott, a novel about two Black writers trying to live in a world filled with gun violence (out Tuesday) Ted Bundy: Dialogue With the Devil, a new Ted Bundy docuseries that features newly uncovered interviews and recordings (out Thursday on Hulu) Essay Illustration by Joshua Nazario Memoir of a Mailman By Tyler Austin Harper “Delivering the mail is a ‘Halloween job,’ ” Stephen Starring Grant observes in Mailman: My Wild Ride Delivering the Mail in Appalachia and Finally Finding Home. “An occupation with a uniform, immediately recognizable, even by children.” What to call Grant’s book is harder to say. It is an unusual amalgam: a pandemic memoir, a love letter to the Blue Ridge Mountains, a participant observer’s ethnography of a rural post office, an indictment of government austerity, and a witness statement attesting to the remarkable and at times ruthless efficiency of one of our oldest federal bureaucracies. Not least, Mailman is a lament for the decline of service as an American ideal—for the cultural twilight of the Halloween job: those occupations, such as police officer, firefighter, Marine, and, yes, postal worker, whose worth is not measured first and foremost in dollars but in public esteem. Or should be, anyway. Read the full article. More in Culture Comfort TV is overrated. How Justin Bieber finally gave us the song of the summer All end-of-the-world menace, all the time Hulk Hogan stayed in character to the end. Eight books for dabblers Catch Up on The Atlantic How NASA engineered its own decline Quinta Jurecic: The FBI’s leaders “have no idea what they’re doing.” Why Trump broke with Bibi over the Gaza famine Photo Album The freestyle-motocross rider Taka Higashino does a no-hands “Superman” trick on opening day of the US Open of Surfing, in California. (Allen J. Schaben / Los Angeles Times / Getty) Included in The Atlantic’s photos of the week are images of a freestyle-motocross trick, a robot-boxing match in Shanghai, a performing-dog show in Canada, and more. Explore all of our newsletters. Rafaela Jinich contributed to this newsletter. When you buy a book using a link in this newsletter, we receive a commission. Thank you for supporting The Atlantic. About the Author Stephanie Bai Follow Stephanie Bai is an associate editor at The Atlantic. Explore More Topics literature