Chris Cuomo Issues WTF Non-Apology To AOC After Falling For Obvious Deepfake Video
Chris Cuomo Issues WTF Non-Apology To AOC After Falling For Obvious Deepfake Video The NewsNation host was not only fooled into thinking Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez discussed an actor's breasts in Congress, but demanded she do better. By Marco Margaritoff Trends Reporter Aug 7, 2025, 10:25 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING NewsNation’s Chris Cuomo fell for an obvious deepfake video of Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) on Wednesday, delivered only a half-hearted apology for attacking her over it — and then demanded she do better. The fake footage appeared to show Ocasio-Cortez on the floor of the U.S. House condemning American Eagle for its new jeans campaign, in which actor Sydney Sweeney notes genes determine a person’s hair color and personality before stating, “My jeans are blue.” Advertisement Some critics believe the ad promotes white supremacy (and many Republicans are now lauding it in response). Cuomo was convinced that Ocasio-Cortez actually spoke about masturbation, “slave daddy oppressors” and Sweeney’s breasts in the House chamber, as the fabricated video suggests. “Nothing about hamas or people burning jews cars…but sweeney jeans ad?” Cuomo wrote in a since-deleted post on X, formerly Twitter. “Deserved time on floor of congress? What happened to this party? Fight for small business…not for small culture wars.” Ocasio-Cortez was quick to debunk the obviously fake footage. The Democratic congresswoman also roasted Cuomo in the process, writing in a direct reply to him Wednesday: “This is a deepfake dude. Please use your critical thinking skills. At this point you’re just reposting Facebook memes and calling it journalism.” Advertisement Cuomo acknowledged in a separate post that Ocasio-Cortez was “correct” about the clip, only to argue that the deepfake “really does sound like you” and asked why she hasn’t called on Hamas to surrender or condemned an antisemitic arson in Missouri. “I’m going to assume you were trying to reply to me and burped this tweet into the ether instead,” Ocasio-Cortez wrote in a post quoting Cuomo’s. “You seem to struggle with knowing how to write an apology. Do you need help? Maybe you should call someone.” The latter comment was presumably a dig at his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who was accused of sexual harassment by multiple women in 2021 and then apologized for making people “uncomfortable.” He resigned later that year after an investigation by the state attorney general. Advertisement NewsNation's Chris Cuomo delivered half-hearted apologies to Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on social media and on his show after taking a deepfake video seriously and criticizing her for comments made in it. Left: Evan Agostini/Invision/Associated Press; Right: Jacquelyn Martin/Associated Press “I do struggle … to understand why you won’t tell hamas to surrender … you have ducked it repeatedly … do you apologize for that?” Chris Cuomo responded Wednesday night. “Far more worthy of reply — and offensive — than an errant tweet, no?” 20 Years OfFreeJournalism Your Support Fuels Our Mission Your Support Fuels Our Mission For two decades, HuffPost has been fearless, unflinching, and relentless in pursuit of the truth. Support our mission to keep us around for the next 20 — we can't do this without you. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. We remain committed to providing you with the unflinching, fact-based journalism everyone deserves. Thank you again for your support along the way. We’re truly grateful for readers like you! Your initial support helped get us here and bolstered our newsroom, which kept us strong during uncertain times. Now as we continue, we need your help more than ever. We hope you will join us once again. Support HuffPost Already contributed? Log in to hide these messages. Cuomo issued a grudging apology to Ocasio-Cortez on his NewsNation show Wednesday, in which he once again argued that her rant in the fake video “did seem like something she would say” — and tried to paint her as a secret Hamas sympathizer. Advertisement Cuomo’s comments came after Ocasio-Cortez wrote Wednesday on X that his brother was “backed” by President Donald Trump’s “orbit” — and that this is why he lost the Democratic primary for New York City mayor against his progressive opponent Zohran Mamdani. Related Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez chris cuomo deepfake Zohran Mamdani Slams Possible Trump Involvement In NYC Mayoral Race Jesse Watters' New Wedding Prediction Is Creeping People Out AOC Drops Biggest Hint Yet About A Potential 2028 Presidential Run Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Politics Sign up for HuffPost's Politics email to get our top stories straight in your inbox. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Politics NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Politics. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post