Kelly Clarkson Says She's Postponing Residency Again As Her Children's Father Is Sick
Kelly Clarkson Breaks Silence On Family Illness As She Postpones Las Vegas Residency Again The "American Idol" winner explained that she usually tries to "keep my personal life private." By Carly Ledbetter Senior Reporter, HuffPost Aug 7, 2025, 10:11 AM EDT LEAVE A COMMENT LOADINGERROR LOADING Kelly Clarkson is postponing her Las Vegas residency in order to be “fully present” for her two children. “While I normally keep my personal life private, this past year, my children’s father has been ill and at this moment, I need to be fully present for them,” she said in an Instagram post Wednesday, adding that she is “sincerely sorry to everyone who bought tickets to the shows.” Advertisement “I so appreciate your grace, kindness and understanding,” Clarkson said in her sign-off. Clarkson and her ex-husband, Brandon Blackstock, share two children: River Rose, 11, and Remington Alexander, 9. The two were married for nearly seven years before splitting in 2020. Clarkson did not elaborate on Blackstock’s illness. Kelly Clarkson and Brandon Blackstock attend the 2018 CMT Music Awards on June 6, 2018, in Nashville, Tennessee. Jeff Kravitz via Getty Images Just last month, Clarkson was under fire for canceling the debut show of her Las Vegas residency only hours before she was set to take the stage. Advertisement “The prep and rehearsals have taken a toll on my voice,” the “Since U Been Gone” singer said. “I want the shows to be perfect for y’all and I need to protect myself from doing serious damage so I am taking this weekend and next week to rest up so that we can deliver what you all deserve,” Clarkson said. The “American Idol” star was also notably absent from her talk show earlier this year, though never publicly gave a reason as to why she was away. Related Las Vegas kelly clarkson brandon blackstock residency Kelly Clarkson Canceled Her Las Vegas Debut At The Last Minute, And Fans Are Furious Kelly Clarkson And Kylie Kelce's Conversation About Schools Has Sparked Debate Sofía Vergara Tells Kelly Clarkson To ‘Shut Up’ Over 'Griselda' Comments Kelly Clarkson Says When She Knew In Her ‘Heart’ Her Marriage Wasn't Working Go to Homepage LEAVE A COMMENT Suggest a correction | Submit a tip Advertisement From Our Partner From Our Partner HuffPost Shopping's Best Finds Newsletter Sign Up Entertainment Don't miss a beat. Your culture and entertainment cheat-sheet. Successfully Signed Up! Realness delivered to your inbox By entering your email and clicking Sign Up, you're agreeing to let us send you customized marketing messages about us and our advertising partners. You are also agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. Close What's Hot More In Entertainment NEWSPOLITICSENTERTAINMENTLIFEVOICESHUFFPOST PERSONALSHOPPINGNEWSLETTERS About UsAdvertiseContact UsRSSFAQCareersUser AgreementComment PolicyDMCA PolicyAccessibility StatementPrivacy PolicyConsent PreferencesPrivacy Settings Part of HuffPost Entertainment. ©2025 BuzzFeed, Inc. All rights reserved. The Huffington Post